book: The Prophecy of Enoch

book-aka: From the Plates of Brass

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/enoch/

---
chapter: Chapter 1

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/enoch/1

1. And now it came to pass that after YHVH Elohim did cast our father Adam and our mother Chavah (Eve) from that garden that is eternally in Eden,

2. That the Shekinah of Alohykm did dwell with the cherubim standing between them and mankind, and they between the Presence of Elohim and that tree of life.

3. And from Her were the malakim of the ministries of YHVH gathered and sent off,

4. Going down from the heavens unto the earth, to do the will of YHVH, El Elyon, all about this earth.

5. And it came to pass that Adam and Eve did teach their peoples, or their children, that journey back towards the garden that they should behold the radiance of the Shekinah,

6. For the splendor of the Shekinah did radiate by the Ruach HaKodesh unto the ends of the earth and from all directions, coming up from the South.

7. ¶ And it came to pass that Ha’Elohim did travel, to and fro, from that garden, by the way of the Shekinah,

8. And though mankind could draw near unto that garden by way of the Shekinah they could not pass the cherubim standing between Her and that tree of life,

9. Yet by being in the Presence of Elohim, they did know and taste of the goodness of that tree.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that in the dispensation of Enoch, the children of Adam and Eve did cease to seek out the face of YHVH,

11. And they did seek after silver and gold, and all sorts of precious stones, and built up elohim unto themselves that did teach them to seek after their own pleasures.

12. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of men did multiply upon the face of the earth.

13. And it came to pass that in that day were born unto them beautiful and favorable daughters.

14. And it came to pass that they who had been set apart to watch over the people of God, the priest who did watch over the temples of YHVH Elohim; yea, even the sons of Elohim,

15. These did see the daughters of men and they did lust after them in so much that they did desire to take them and place them in bondage,

16. And this that they should keep them unto themselves and dispose of them when they were through.

17. ¶ And it came to pass that they did gather themselves together, and did say one unto another:

18. Come, let us take for us these women from among the children of men, and let us all swear an oath,

19. And all bind us by the curse of that oath not to abandon this plan, but to do this thing, and keep it secret.

20. And it came to pass that all they did swear together and bound themselves in secret combinations, even as had Cain, taking upon themselves the oaths of the Mahan;

21. And in this did they begin to serve the Iyrin (those that watch, waiting to accuse), being themselves Nephilim (the fallen ones), the children of the Iyrin, rejecting the Torah of YHVH given unto Adam and Eve.

22. ¶ And it came to pass that some of these women they did keep alive for themselves,

23. And these they did take unto them as wives, and did teach unto them the mysteries, and began to instruct the people in the ways of the Iyrin,

24. That they should know to do cunning works of the apothecary, and charms and enchantments, and to read the stars.

25. And they did take the silver and the gold and the precious stones from the earth and did teach to make ornaments,

26. And so it was that all they had been taught that was the power of YHVH had been corrupted before Ha’Elohim and used for evil before His sight.

27. And they did forsake their duties in the temples of YHVH and did begin to worship the sun, and the moon, and the stars, placing them as idols;

28. For they knew to read the movements of the heavens, and now they did covenant to give unto the heavens power over them.

29. ¶ And it came to pass that Raphael and Michael, and Arial and Gabriel did look down from the heavens and did hear the cries of the children of men unto their idols,

30. And seeing much bloodshed and the perversion of the priests of the temples of YHVH they did cry out also unto YHVH, saying:

31. El Elyon, where is thy mercy? El Olam, this creation has been perverted by the teachings of the eternal secrets unto darkness!

32. And it came to pass that YHVH, our Elohim, seeing the works of the Nephilim and their secret combinations, did turn unto Tzaphkiel, and spoke unto him saying: It is time; therefore, go down. 

---
chapter: Chapter 2

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/enoch/2

1. And it came to pass that Jared knew his wife, Baraka; and she bore a son, and they did name him Enoch.

2. And it came to pass that Jared and Baraka did teach Enoch in all the ways of Ha’Elohim, for they were preachers of righteousness,

3. And they did speak and prophesy in the name of YHVH, and did call upon all mankind everywhere to repent, that faith would be taught unto the children of men.

4. ¶ And it came to pass that before Enoch was yet grown that he had taken unto himself a wife, Aadani, and she being older than he.

5. And it came to pass that they did journey together in the land among the people;

6. And wither they did go, they were cast out, for Enoch was but a lad to them;

7. Yea, and this because his speech was slow, and some thought him mute, and others simple, a fool set before them of no worth.

8. ¶ And it came to pass that as they did journey, the Ruach HaKodesh did descend from out of the heavens and fell upon them and did abide upon them.

9. And so it was that they did hear a voice from heaven saying: Enoch, my son, prophecy unto this people and say unto them: Repent!

10. For thus saith YHVH: I am angry with this people, and my fierce anger is kindled against them;

11. For their hearts have waxed hard, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes cannot see a far off.

12. And for these many generations even since the day that I created them have they gone astray, and have denied me, and have sought their own councils in the dark.

13. And in their own abominations have they devised murder, and have not kept the Torah which I gave unto their father, Adam and their mother, Eve;

14. Wherefore they have foresworn themselves, and by their oaths they have eaten unto themselves death and that hell I have prepared for them if they repent not.

15. And this is a decree which I have sent forth in the beginning of the world, from mine own mouth from the foundation thereof;

16. And by the mouths of my servants, thy fathers and thy mothers, have I decreed it; even as it shall be sent forth in the world unto the end thereof.

17. ¶ And when Enoch and Aadani did hear these words, Enoch did bow himself to the earth before YHVH and spoke before YHVH saying:

18. Why is it that I have found favor in thy sight? And I am but a lad, and all the people hate me, for I am slow of speech; wherefore am I thy servant?

19. ¶ And YHVH did speak unto Enoch, saying: Go forth and do as I have instructed thee and no man shall pierce thee;

20. Yea, open thy mouth and it shall be filled, I will give thee utterance, for all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seemeth me good;

21. Therefore, say unto this people: Choose ye this day the Elohim who did make you!

22. And YHVH said unto him further: Behold, my Breath is upon you, wherefore all thy words will I justify.

23. And the mountains shall flee before you, and the rivers shall turn from their course; and thou shalt abide in me, and I in you; therefore, walk with me and be my chereb.

24. ¶ And it came to pass that Enoch did look upon his wife, Aadani, and said unto her: Will thy countenance fall upon me also?

25. Or in other words: Would thou support me in this thing we have been called to do?

26. And Aadani did answer him, saying: All that El Olam asketh of thee, I shall stand with thee that we should do it.

27. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH spoke again unto Enoch and said unto him:

28. Take up that urim and thummim that thou hast been given and anoint thine eyes with clay and wash them and thou shalt see;

29. And I shall bless you, and set you apart, that ye shall be ordained unto me, the Tzadik Yachad of this generation.

30. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH Elohim did take two stones, and did write upon them the Torah, saying:

sub-chapter: ONE

31. Ahyeh Asher Ahyeh is the Creator of All Things:

32. He is El Elyon; know that YHVH is ONE, YHVH is UNITY, YHVH is ETERNAL,

33. YHVH is not some elohim of man, made by their hands; therefore, YHVH is NEVER UNCHANGING, YHVH is NEVER ENDING:

34. All things bear witness that YHVH is omnipotent and omnipresent, who maketh the Torah, and bindeth all things in their bounds,

35. Who filleth Eternity, who was and is and will be from all Eternity to Eternity.

sub-chapter: TWO

36. ¶ YHVH is all knowing:

37. It was by Wisdom that the World was made, and the eyes, knowledge and wisdom,

38. Observe all things, know all things, understand all things, for should YHVH turn His eyes away, all the creation should be destroyed.

39. And here, in the creation, shall stand no unfruitful tree, and every place shall be blessed, for such is the will of YHVH.

sub-chapter: THREE

40. ¶ They that have been warned, all these shall warn another:

41. For the curse of mankind is ignorance, forgetting that which they have previously been blessed;

42. For YHVH doth not curse mankind, nor the earth, nor her creatures; but it is the evil of mankind that has planted the curse that has born weeds and thistles upon the ground,

43. For the evil fruits of mankind, yea the wickedness of mankind, these too shall bare seed; therefore, all those that have been warned, let them warn their neighbors.

sub-chapter: FOUR

44. ¶ Even as YHVH hath blessed the Sabbath day, let mankind keep the Sabbaths:

45. Let mankind find rest in YHVH, that they should be blessed, for YHVH hath blessed all that is visible unto mankind, and all that is invisible unto mankind;

46. Therefore, shall the Sabbath be kept that mankind should remember YHVH and the paradise that was created for mankind.

47. And let mankind remember El Elyon on the Sabbaths, open their mouth and praise YHVH.

sub-chapter: FIVE

48. ¶ Thou shalt not have any malice in thy heart against another:

49. Be it mankind or beast of the earth, or foul of the air, or fish of the sea, thou shall have no malice, for all are the creation of YHVH.

50. And in the last day, when thou shall seek charity before the face of YHVH, Alohykm shall look upon thee and thy charity, and what shall be seen of thee?

51. Wherefore, have charity for all the creation, for it is YHVH, and thou doth belong to Him.

52. Yea, bear thee the yoke of thy neighbors, and love they that hate thee, look down and lift up any that are fallen;

53. Be thou one to impart love that YHVH shall be seen and be known.

sub-chapter: SIX

54. ¶ Remember the creation, keep all from before the foundation in thy heart, make firm all that hath been given from the beginning unto mankind:

55. Speak thou with a humble tongue and a broken and contrite heart unto all, enter thy house clean; in patience bring thy gifts before YHVH Alohykm,

sub-chapter: SEVEN

56. ¶ Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth; for thou art her creation.

57. ¶ And it came to pass that after Enoch and Aadani had been given this, the Torah of YHVH, that their eyes were opened unto them, both being ordained to the Holy Priesthood after the Order of the Son of God;

58. And so it was that they beheld the spirits that Elohim had created, and they beheld also many other things which were not visible unto mankind,

59. And from thenceforth came the saying abroad in the land: A seer hath YHVH raised up unto His people.

60. And this because they had been given and did have in their possession that urim and thummim given unto their father, Adam, and their mother, Eve;

61. And these were given when they were cast out of the garden, that they might see that they should find their way back to YHVH, their Elohim in teshuvah.

62. ¶ And this urim and thummim had been passed down from Adam and Eve unto Seth and Azurah, And from Seth and Azurah unto Enos and Naom,

63. And from Enos and Naom unto Cainan and Melkah, and from Cainan and Melkah unto Mahalelel and Dinah,

64. And from Mahalelel and Dinah unto Jared and Barakah, and from Jared and Barakah unto Enoch and Aadani.

65. And it was given unto Enoch and Aadani to see, for they had been washed clean and were one with the earth,

66. Or in other words, one with Ahyeh Asher Ahyeh, the Creator, and one with His creation.

67. And it came to pass that Enoch and his wife, Aadani were called and set apart to be the Tzadik Yachad of that generation. 

---
chapter: Chapter 3

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/enoch/3

1. And it came to pass that Enoch and his wife, Aadani did return unto their own lands, being the land of Cainan, and to the house of Jared and Barakah.

2. And it came to pass that some in the house of Jared and Baraka had been converted unto that covenant of the Iyrin, being themselves of the Nephilim;

3. Therefore, they did covenant in secret, one unto another, to take the lives of Enoch and Aadani.

4. ¶ And it came to pass that while Enoch and Aadani were sleeping, that some of those that were of the Nephilim did come before them in the night, seeking to take their lives;

5. And they did behold a burning light that did light up the faces of Enoch and of Aadani,

6. Even that their faces did shine like that of the sun, and as they did breathe, their breath was even as fire coming forth from their lips.

7. And it came to pass that the servants of the Iyrin did fall down, for they were sore afraid.

8. ¶ And it came to pass that Enoch and Aadani awoke, and Aadani did speak unto them, saying: Have courage, and be not afraid.

9. And it came to pass that those that were there did get themselves up, and they did flee from before them;

10. Yet there was one among them, a daughter, and she did speak, saying: I am Ydris, and I have seen that I am nothing, and that the Iyrin are as nothing,

11. For because that my covenant hastened me to obey, I did come out from out of the house of my father that I should take your lives;

12. But now I see that YHVH is El Elyon, Elohim Shaddai that should be feared, all honor and glory be unto Him.

13. And now I see that my covenant was unto death, but I desire to covenant unto life, for YHVH hath made my heart to fear (or honor) Him.

14. And now, behold, the Nephilim shall seek me too, to take my life; for I shall not honor that wickedness but seek the mercy of YHVH.

15. ¶ And it came to pass that Enoch and Aadani did take Ydris from the house of her fathers, and did wash her clean,

16. And they did seek to instruct her in the Torah, even as they had been instructed.

17. ¶ And it came to pass that the elders of her house did come in the night and take her, for they did desire her flesh and she had broken the covenant of Mahan;

18. Therefore, they did cast her into a pit and began to fight one against another as to her fate.

19. ¶ And it came to pass that it was decided that she should be given unto the man who would role her fate,

20. And so it was that it was said unto her: Ydris, daughter of Yabel, who is the son of Yaad, thou shall be taken up.

21. And it came to pass that when that man did look down into the pit, his eyes were opened and he did see that the malakim of YHVH did surround her,

22. And Ydris was standing in the Presence of Elohim; therefore, all that did look at her did die, and they that saw but the light of it were blinded.

23. And it came to pass that Ydris did get herself up out of that pit, and did return to the house of Jared and Baraka;

24. ¶ And it came to pass that the angel of YHVH did come unto Enoch, and Aadani, and Ydris, and did say unto them:

25. Thy father and thy mother, Jared and Barakah, they have been sent to those of the Nephilim that they should be converted and live, and this is again a land of YHVH and righteousness.

26. And now YHVH, thy Elohim, would send thee forth into other lands; therefore, get thee up and leave this land and go wither I shall show you. Chapter 4

1. And it came to pass that Enoch and his wives, Aadani and Ydris went forth in the land among the people standing upon the hills and the high places;

2. And they did cry out with a loud voice testifying against their works of wickedness.

3. And all the servants of the Iyrin, the Nephilim, were offended because they did speak their secret combinations.

4. And the tent keepers did come forth to hear Enoch speak out upon the high places, and the tent keepers did say one to the other:

5. Tarry thou here and keep the tents while we go yonder to behold the seer, for he prophesieth;

6. And there is a strange thing in the land, a wild man (one who was not constrained by the social norms of their people) hath come among us.

7. ¶ And it came to pass when the people did hear Enoch, no man did lay their hands upon him, nor upon his wives, nor any that were with them:

8. For fear came upon all they that heard them, for they did know that they did walk with Ha’Elohim.

9. ¶ And it came to pass that there came a man unto them, whose name was Mahijah, and said unto him: Tell us plainly who thou art, and from whence thou came.

10. And it came to pass that Enoch spoke unto him plainly, saying:

11. We came out from the land of Cainan, the land of my fathers, a land of righteousness unto this day, and my father taught me in all the ways of Ha’Elohim.

12. And it came to pass as I journeyed from the land of Cainan by the sea east I beheld a vision,

13. And lo, the heavens I saw, and YHVH did speak with me, and did instruct me;

14. Wherefore, for this cause to keep the Torah we have been given, and the instructions YHVH did give unto me, I speak forth these words.

---
chapter:  ...

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/enoch/more

. //More to be translated from the plates of brass as the work of the Lord moves forward//
