
book: The Book of Melchizedek

book-aka: Sefer Melchizedek

book-sum: The secret knowledge given first from the temple of YHVH to Melchizedek—the king of peace, king of heaven upon the earth, the great High Priest after the order of the Son of God; then from Melchizedek to Abraham: Amen.

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/

---
chapter: Chapter 1

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/1

chapter-aka: An introduction and brief history of Melchizedek.

1. Melchizedek was a man of faith who wrought righteousness;

2. And when he was but a child, he feared Ha’Elohim, and stopped the mouths of lions, and quenched the violence of fire.

3. And thus, having been approved of YHVH, he was ordained Kohen Gadol after the order of the covenant which YHVH made with Enoch,

4. It being after the order of the Son of God, which order came not by man, nor the will of man, neither by father nor mother, neither by beginning of days nor end of years, but of YHVH Elohim.

5. And it was delivered unto men by the calling of the voice of Ruach Elohim, according to His own will, unto as many as believed on HaShem (The Name);

6. For YHVH, having sworn unto Enoch and unto his seed with an oath by Himself that everyone being ordained after this order and calling should have power, by faith, to break mountains,

7. To divide the seas, to dry up waters, to turn them out of their course,

8. To put at defiance the armies of nations, to divide the earth, to break every band,

9. To stand in the presence of YHVH, to do all things according to His will, according to His command, and to subdue principalities and powers;

10. And this by the will of the Son of God which was from before the foundation of the world.

11. And men //and women// having this faith, coming up unto this order of God, were translated and taken up into heaven.

12. ¶ And now, Melchizedek was a High Priest of this order; therefore, he obtained peace in Salem and was called the king of peace.

13. And his people wrought righteousness, and obtained heaven, and sought for the city of Enoch which Elohim had before taken, separating it from the earth, having reserved it unto the latter days, or the end of the world.

14. And YHVH hath said, and sworn with an oath: That the heavens and the earth should come together, and the sons of Elohim should be tried so as by fire.

15. ¶ And this Melchizedek, having thus established righteousness, was called the king of heaven by his people, or, in other words, the king of peace;

16. Him who lifted up his voice, and blessed Abram, being the High Priest and the keeper of the storehouse of El Elyon;

17. Him whom El Elyon had appointed to receive tithes for the poor.

18. Wherefore, even Abram, who was born again unto YHVH Elohim as Abraham, the father of all of covenant peoples of YHVH, paid unto him tithes of all that he had, of all the riches which he possessed, which Ha Elohim had given him more than that which he did need.

19. And because of his humility, YHVH blessed Abram and gave unto him riches, and honor, and lands for an everlasting possession, according to the covenant which he had made and according to the blessing wherewith Melchizedek had blessed him.

20. ¶ And Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine; and he broke bread and blessed it; and he blessed the wine, he being the great High Priest of the most high God.

21. And he gave to Abram, after he blessed him, saying: Blessed Abram, thou art a man of the most high of Elohim, possessor of heaven and of earth;

22. And blessed is the name of the most high Elohim, which hath delivered thine enemies into thine hand.

23. ¶ And Melchizedek, the king of Salem, lifted up his voice and blessed Abram with secret wisdoms, and taught him to guard them until they come forth unto the world, by the will of God, at the last days.

---
chapter: Chapter 2

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/2

chapter-aka: Melchizedek tells Abraham of his past and his love of the City of Enoch.

1. And he said unto Abram: I, Melchizedek, the king of Salem, king of peace, descendant of Shem, known by my people as the king of heaven upon the Earth, High Priest (Kohen Gadol) of YHVH Elohim:

2. I leave with you, Abram, the Word of YHVH unto you, to teach from generation to generation;

3. I, who desire to be taken up into the city of Enoch, along with my people, the people of Salem—here and now I set down for the guidance and teaching for those that are to come after.

4. ¶ And I speak with certainty and most truly these things that have been passed down from the time of Adam until now by my fathers.

5. We that are below who shall join with those above, and those with thee shall join together again so that they produce a single priesthood, a most wonderful blessing from Alohykm unto mankind.

6. ¶ In the great city of Enoch, taken unto Ha’Elohim, these truths were taught openly, and without fear:

7. Now, as the men of this world die and await judgment, the mighty ones of the city of Enoch, which is Zion, do live and die not;

8. But behold, they were taken up from the earth to renew their lives eternal in the kingdom Celestial where the Tree of Life grows eternally upward.

9. And as the whole universe was brought forth from One by the Word of God, who is YHVH, who is Chesed (mercy), so also all things are regenerated eternally from YHVH, according to the mercies of Alohykm.

10. ¶ And this city has Avinu (our Father) of knowledge for a Father, and the wisdom of the Tree of Life for a mother:

11. And the city was carried by the air, as if in a womb, after it was finished being nursed by the earth,

12. And this because YHVH is the cause of all perfection, of all things throughout the universe.

13. And it shall come to pass that those that dwell in this city shall attain the highest perfection of powers Celestial when, in the end times, it shall be returned back unto the earth.

14. ¶ And even I did at the first walk in the dark, not knowing the way that led into light, looking for the path to this city that dwells with Alohykm;

15. But YHVH did bless me, and I have ascended from the darkness (or abyss) by the power of Ruach HaKodesh into the light;

16. And thus my strength and the power of the priesthood, or in other words by the power of God, has been awakened and renewed.

17. ¶ Now for a time, I reign among men in the city of Salem and the lands around bout;

18. And is shall soon come to pass that we too shall leave, by the Grace and power of YHVH, who is our Elohim; and thou shalt know me no more.

19. But in the last days it shall come to pass that I and my people shall return again with the Messiah, full in the Priesthood of the Son of God, requiring for YHVH an account of those who were left behind.

20. ¶ And before that day shall I come to stir the healing waters and distribute here upon the earth once again the keys of the Priesthood to organize mankind in the name of YHVH once again,

21. And then shall men and women be baptized in water and fire, that Aviad shall fulfill through the Messiah{a} //Jesus Christ//{b} the destiny of Adam, of mankind—the very hope and endowment of all.
[a] Literally “anointed one” in the Hebrew or in Egyptian, “one to anoint.” This is saying in one language that Jesus is anointed, while in another that he will anoint. But both words mean the same: messiah.
[b] This name, Jesus Christ, was not on the brass plates, added by inspiration.

22. ¶ And I shall descend with the Son of Man in that day from the City of Enoch:

23. What went from the earth into the sky shall descend again to the earth, and recognize that the things above and of things below are one, for they do belong to YHVH;

24. Therefore, it is He that possess the glory of Alohykm Celestial who’s keys we shall carry, and beyond this degree no one shall climb any further.

25. The priesthood and authority of Kedem Qadam Kadmon Himself presently comes forth stronger by reasons of this fortitude;

26. The Holy Priesthood after the Order of the Son of Man subdues all earthly and heavenly bodies surely,

27. Whether before or beyond the veil, the Son of Man shall penetrate them, and upon Elohim shall the glory be given.

28. ¶ Then beware, O men of the Earth: If ye shall betray these teachings for priestcraft, YHVH, Ha’Elohim, and the Sons of the Morning shall cast ye down from your high estate, into the darkness from whence ye came.

29. Betray not these secrets to the men and women of this world, lest my curse, which is the curse of Alohykm, even a great curse, shall fall upon thee.

30. Remember and heed my words, for surely will I return again at the last days and require of thee that which ye have been entrusted to guard.

31. ¶ And, even in the meridian of time shall I be reborn, at that time when the Son of Man shall open the graves, and from beyond death shall I return;

32. And when the Messiah shall come, and shall be given unto death by his friends and shall rise from death, for YHVH is God{c}, creator of all things, and shall subdue even life and death;
[c] Hebrew “El,” Egyptian “Ka.”

33. At that time shall I too return, and again at the last day, and at other times as sent by YHVH, to bring to the earth the keys of each generation, from generation to generation;

34. So shall I do, rewarding as ye have requited, by fulfilling the commandments of God and his Priesthood,

35. Or punishing those that sell what is precious unto YHVH to unworthy men and women with their whorings and priestcrafts.

36. ¶ Separate shall I the earth from the fire, yea as it ascends from earth to the heavens;

37. And again, it descends to earth and receives the force of things for good and for evil, depending on the heart of man.

38. By this means of separation ye shall have the glory of the whole world, and thereby all obscurity shall fly from you;

39. But so too shall the Wisdom of Alohykm be kept hidden from thee, if thou give in to the darkness of mankind.


---
chapter: Chapter 3

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/3

chapter-aka: The teachings of Enoch.

1. Great were the people of the YHVH Shalom in the city of Enoch, listening as they did to the teachings passed down from the ancient of days:

2. Great knowledge and great wisdom had they, beyond the corruption of the world around them;

3. Knowing the wisdom of old, seeking from within the heart of Elohim YHVH, the Eternal Alohykm, knowledge that belonged to mankind’s youth coming out from the garden.

4. Wise were they with Elohim’s wisdom, yea they were wise with the wisdom of Ha’Elohim{a}, these Sons of the morning and Daughters of light; yea, the very angels didst dwell among them within their city;
[a] “Wise were they with Elohim’s wisdom, yea they were wise with the wisdom of the gods” these are two equally valid translations of the same texts. The translation is duplicated because the intent is lost when translating to English.

5. Strong were they with the power of Priesthood; drawn from that eternal fire that is Ruach HaKodesh—not the fires of this world which only cast shadows among the darkness.

6. ¶ And of all these, greatest among the children of mankind was their High Priest, Enoch //and one of his wives, the High Priestess//{b}:
[b] “and his wife, the High Priestess” not on the brass plates, added by inspiration

7. Keepers of the great temple, prophets and seers, teachers of the children of Light who dwelt within the city, driving out the priestcraft of mankind which inhabited the lands around them:

8. Mouthpiece of YHVH was Enoch; he who walked and talked with Ha’Elohim, spoke he to the kings of men with the Voice that must be obeyed.

9. ¶ From this wisdom passed down from my fathers, grew I from a child into manhood, being taught by my fathers the elder mysteries, until in time there grew within me the tree of knowledge and the fire of wisdom, until it burst into a consuming flame.

10. And I desired nothing, neither food nor sleep: naught but the attainment of wisdom.

11. ¶ One great day the command came from them that I be brought before Kohen Gadol, the High Priest of YHVH{c} in the court of my fathers.
[c] “Kohen Gadol, the High Priest of YHVH” literally: “the High Priest, the High Priest of YHVH”

12. Few there were at that time among the children of men who had looked upon that mighty face and lived;

13. For some that see are found wanting; and in them the fire brings madness, heresy, or death.

14. Yet was I chosen from the sons of men, taught in the ways of YHVH by Kohen Gadol so that the purpose of HaShem might be fulfilled by the passing of wisdom and knowledge; yea, and of knowledge and understanding:

15. For not as the teachings and wisdom of mankind are the teachings of the Sons of the Morning:

16. Yet I wast chosen from the sons of men, taught the ways of YHVH by Kohen Gadol that the purpose of The Name might be fulfilled by the passing of knowledge and wisdom; yea and of wisdom and understanding.

17. ¶ Many years did I dwell in the Temple, learning ever and yet ever more wisdom, until I too was filled with the light emitted from the great fire (representing the Sefirot or emanations of God).

18. And he taught me the path to Ha’Elohim, the path of the Sons of the Morning, yea even the Sons of Light, even they that cried out with joy at the creation.

19. These secrets share I with you, Abram; for the lips of wisdom are closed, except to the ears of understanding;

20. For where the teacher walks in the paths of YHVH, the ears of those ready for his teachings are open;

21. Likewise, when the ears of the student are ready to hear, then cometh a teacher to fill them with wisdom.


---
chapter: Chapter 4

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/4

chapter-aka: The teachings of the temple.

1. In this manner was the world created:

2. First was everything, and everything always was; and thus all is and ever was En Sof, or everlasting:

3. And this was Alohykm{a} and Ieshurun{b}, and the beasts, and the plants, and the rocks, and the wind.
[a] Means “gods of us or our gods” with male singular but female plural, just like Elohim
[b] Those who stand upright of the path to God, the righteous ones

4. Yea, it was all; yet it was as nothing, for it was void; and darkness was, as it were, upon the face of the deep where dwelt as it were a great pool of living water:

5. And the first stage of man, the eternal man adam kadmon{c} that was never born and shall never die, was brooding upon the face of the waters.
[c] “The eternal man” and “Adam Kadmon” these are two equally valid translations of the same text; the translation is duplicated because the intent is lost when translating to English.

6. ¶ And Elohim moved upon the face of the waters, and drew them up, the intelligences, and they are gods{d}, the very sons and daughters of Elohim; even the Sons of the Morning and the Daughters of Light.
[d] Hebrew: “elohim”

7. From the void sprang everything; and there was never a time when there was truly nothing, forever and eternal are we, and ever and eternal is YHVH.

8. And these gathered and organized, and light shined upon the face of the darkness, but darkness knew not the light.

9. Thus are the five stages of man: Intelligence, Spirit, Flesh, Soul, and Resurrected Being; the final being all stages in one, a Morning Star—forever complete.

10. Thus are the incarnations of man, and the arrangements to follow this road are hidden from the eyes that cannot see.

11. ¶ For this reason, we are calling Elohim the one God: one in essence, yet many in aspect; or many in being, yet one in priesthood;

12. The highest being two: both male and female{e}, thus being four, and again seen as five as their unity is one, the fifth being Keter{f}.
[e] “the Divine Masculine and the Divine Feminine”
[f] Keter: Hebrew “the crown,” Egyptian “the All”

13. In this trinity is hidden the knowledge and wisdom of the whole world,

14. And through the mercy and justice of Alohykm shall we gain understanding, and by understanding, a glimpse of the Crown of Elohim{g}.
[g] Crown of Elohim: literally “Elohim Keter”

15. The children of god{d} descend to the earth to become sons of men; to die as princes, and ascend from the earth to the heavens, and become rulers over that which is above and that which is below.
[d] Hebrew: “elohim”

16. ¶ Deep I bowed in homage before YHVH receiving as my gift, the Key of Life, which is knowledge given with wisdom, even the very Tree of Life.

17. A great sin it is to eat from the tree unbeckoned, yet beckoned was I;

18. Thus to the stars and the City of Enoch shall I too one day journey, then space and time{h} shall be as naught;
[h] Literally “place and eternal” or “place and eternity”

19. For after drinking deep of the cup of wisdom, I have looked into the hearts of men, and there I found greater mysteries; as for only by losing myself in the service of others{i} was my joy made full.
[i] Literally “servant I of men”

20. And only in the truth of YHVH can our souls be filled, and the flame within lit eternally, as mankind too is filled with Ruach HaKodesh.

21. And, through the ages has the Holy Priesthood, after the Order of the Son of God lived and been passed down by my fathers, and now from my fathers unto you, Abram.

22. And I, seeing those around me taste of the cup of death and return again unto the light of life, even the bosom of Alohykm, know that this life is but a fleeting memory.

23. And thus, gradually I learned from the wisdom of my fathers, knowledge passed down from the City of Enoch;

24. This wisdom filled me with waves of consciousness that had been one with me in a prior incarnation, only to be replaced by spawn of a lower star here upon the earth.


---
chapter: Chapter 5

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/5

chapter-aka: The secrets of the temple.

1. In obedience to the Torah, the teachings of Kohen Gadol, the High Priest and keeper of the secrets of the temple, grew in my heart like a flower.

2. And he taught me the true things of YHVH Alohykm, Turning me away from the darkness to the thoughts of the Most High, speaking the Word, calling the power (light) from on High.

3. And there in the temple he taught me of our father, Adam, the first man to whom our Alohykm revealed His light and knowledge.

4. ¶ Adam was born under a star (a comet?) as it shot across the night sky, only to vanish and reappear upon his death.

5. The man, Adam, was known at birth by a prophecy to be a usurper of the gods of men, gods from deep within Earth's heart;

6. And the sons of men heard of his birth, and upon hearing they ordered their priests to change the fire that burned in charge to their gods to sacrifice all the children born under this star.

7. ¶ Now this fire represented the fire that burns eternally (hell), changing and shifting, casting shadows upon the hearts of mankind;

8. And this great fire bows to and fro, changing its direction by every draft of wind;

9. But Adam was made from the dust of the Earth, given wisdom Chokhmah and the breath of life, which is the very knowledge (Da’at) of Alohykm.

10. And the man Adam was blessed by the Father of the Heavens and nourished by the Mother in the Earth, and he was raised in a cave, hidden from the faces of men.

11. ¶ And as Adam grew, he first worshiped the shadows that gave him food and warmth, but in time he saw that these were false gods, for they were but the shadows of man;

12. And then he worshiped the men, but as time went on, he saw them age, and knew they were like him, but flesh.

13. And when he saw the light coming from outside the cave, and he worshipped the light, and O how he longed to be in its warmth!

14. ¶ And it came to pass that one day be escaped the cave, still a boy, and saw that the light came from the sun, and so he worshiped the sun; but that night, the sun died and so he worshiped the moon:

15. And in the morning, he saw that the sun was resurrected, and so he worshiped the sun again.

16. But the sun was hidden from him later in that day, and the rain washed Adam clean, and he knew that these light bringers were not gods, neither the sun nor the moon.

17. ¶ And Adam escaped away and was gathered up by YHVH and taken to a garden in the bosom of his true mother, Eden; and here, in the garden was he given wives, and taught the ways of Alohykm.

18. And here he was given the seven keys of YHVH, the very keys of creation.

---
chapter: Chapter 6

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/6

chapter-aka: The Keys of Creation.

1. And the first key of creation opens the prisons shut up by death, for when in harmony it divides the light from the darkness, for there must be opposition in all things:

2. And by this key is the soul given birth in man, being born anew from the seed planted in the heart of Adam, the spirit and the flesh birth the soul within the body, and these three: the spirit, flesh, and soul, become as one.

3. And in the first key is the hidden stone, the new name, given that shall be as a sign to men and women; an urim and thummim of the heart:

4. This urim and thummim burns bright for it contains the Holy Spirit, a vast sea of glass and fire, for all things of the mystery here shall be revealed.

5. And the first key brings harmony to the three sides of mankind, eyes might be open to the visions of YHVH, to prepare mankind to speak Word of YHVH, and to take action in uplifting one another; for only in the light might we see truth and seek justice that the creation of YHVH be fulfilled.

6. Take heed, therefore, and do not be deceived; for Alohykm is Truth, and YHVH is Mercy that mankind might be the hands and do the works to unite the body and the spirit:

7. And this is the first keys, and this is the first purification of the soul, that mankind shall shine in whiteness, for the work of the first key is never ending.

8. ¶ And the second key is the separation of the firmament; and this separation made by raising up filter to purify the terrestrial into the celestial through the firmament;

9. And the celestial rains upon the earth, to feed the waters terrestrial and purify the earth and all life thereupon.

10. And the rainwater is given to temper the fire of judgment, that mankind might find supplication before YHVH Alohykm.

11. None may reveal this secret of the firmament but they who are given of God to understand it, and even then, only by prayer to Alohykm shall make clear the truth;

12. For the knowledge of this great mystery is an endowment from the heavens, and this second key may only be used by those that have found the light of the first:

13. And neither force, nor reasoning, nor any of the ways of mankind shall give them access;

14. Therefore, let them read the writings of our fathers and let them meditate upon the things of YHVH Alohykm;

15. And most importantly, let them pray; for the mystery of the endowment may be made clear by the works in prayer and fasting in meditation upon El Elyon.

16. And without supplication the firmament cannot be created, and the waters cannot be divided from the waters;

17. And this conversion is the only way whereby our souls brood in the mother’s womb;

18. Therefore, know the light of the first key, which dissolves the darkness with peace, is purified by the second key, in the water in the great sea of the creation.

19. And this water shall become the very wine of the vine which we do here drink as the water of life, but is to the darkness the bitterest of vinegar to the tongue:

20. Taste therefore the sweetness of the wine upon thy tongues, and by its digestion ye shall be purified, for the work of the second key is never ending.

21. ¶ And the third key is the separation of the dry ground from the water, for as the light is the creation by the fire of judgment and the waters are the mercy of YHVH, the ground is our mother the Earth, the very Shekinah, and the plants shall bear fruit in us of the works of Alohykm.

22. And when the dry ground appears, the soul is birthed from the womb, and grass and herbs shall mankind eat thereof that he shall not faint;

23. For there is no lacking of light and water upon the earth for nourishment if we possess this, the third key; and the heavens are no longer closed to us.

24. And a spring of living water shall come out of the stone, to nourish the fruit of the vine that we might make our wine, for nothing shall come from the earth which is not for our good;

25. For that all which is unclean is made perfect by the very fire hidden in the center of Eden, washed by the Holy Spirit.

26. It has been said that there is nothing is more contrary than fire and water, than judgment and mercy;

27. Yet Alohykm has stated that we must make peace between us and our enemies, and radically love one another vehemently:

28. Therefore, all things must be purged by fire and by water to be brothers and sisters in the earth, which had ascended with them;

29. Therefore, the body must be washed in the water, and the spirit cleansed in the fire for Eden be made whole in humidity, and this for every generation:

30. For the spirit of mankind’s desire is Eve, the body of mankind’s actions is Adam; and these two, joined together replenish the desires of the human race;

31. For these two are of the same nature, yet differ in their genders, and this must be to ascend as one Adam together, soul, spirit, and body;

32. And after purification, at last these are inseparably, united their most noble and perfected form through the third key.

33. And behold the water; it is a living spring which comes from out of the stone; miracle of nature!

34. To the wicked the water which cometh fourth from out of this stone is as vinegar,

35. To the uninitiated it is wine upon which they who drink become intoxicated and sleep;

36. But to the enlightened it is truth: knowledge and wisdom from the foundation rising up to the crown.

37. Wherefore, this third key is given many names: some call it wine, some oil, some vinegar; but it is the very water of life:

38. Use it therefore to cleanse thine own eyes, and thy face, and thy bodies,

39. For it is necessary to clean the body in humility, to remove the blackness, and make a perfect union of the earth and the heavens.

40. And this is the soul, inseparably uniting the spirit and the flesh, the heavens and the earth, for the work of the third key is never ending.

41. ¶ And the fourth key is the shining of the lights of the firmament to guide us in our rebirth; for in the stars is the Word of Alohykm written and the will of YHVH known.

42. Doubt not the signs of the heavens, but know that they shall neither move thy feet nor thy hearts;

43. For the writing in the heavens will guide the righteous watchers to the land of promise, the wisemen to the king, and the soul it shall cause to produce fruits that cannot be purchased at any price.

44. Write then, the messages of the heavens and watch their motions and see how they appear in motion about the earth, for the work of the fourth key is never ending.

45. ¶ And the fifth key is the creation of life in the waters, and the air; and the fish are our desire for mercy, and the fowl are our desire for knowledge and wisdom, and as the foul eat the fish, understanding is given upon the earth.

46. The perfecting of the earth is the perfecting of our desires upon it, and the greatest of these is to reach up, as the fowl of the air, and fly unto the heavens.

47. And the union of spirit and the flesh are washed clean by the desires that grow in the seas, the water taken up to the heavens to be purified and rain back down to cleans the earth.

48. As the soul submits to the will of El Elyon, the flesh and the spirit are cleansed and housed anew in the soul;

49. Therefore, watch thy desires that they do not fly so free that they forget to feed in the waters, and to nest upon the earth, for the work of the fifth key is never ending.

50. ¶ And the sixth key is the creation of animals of the land, and of mankind within Adam, who is Eve,

51. And together they walk straight without twisting and winding along vain roads on to which many stray and are found wondering.

52. And these animals of the earth are our desires at every level; but the highest desire is that of Adam and Eve;

53. For in these are our will to bestow and our desire to receive all the things of YHVH Alohykm.

54. And we have been given these keys of creation that we might gain experience;

55. For experience is both wisdom and knowledge, and truth; and in truth shall understanding be reviled, for there must be opposition in all things for the work of the sixth key is never ending.

56. ¶ And the seventh key is the sabbath for the Shabbat is life everlasting and it is never ending.


---
chapter: Chapter 7

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/7

chapter-aka: The Keys of Knowledge and Wisdom.

1. And Melchizedek blessed Abraham and Sarah, saying: I, Melchizedek, king of Salem, king of peace, give thee wisdom, gained from Shekinah, the divine Mother, and I give thee knowledge, gained from Avinu, the Divine Father;

2. And I give thee power in the mercy of the Son of Man, and I give unto thee strength in Ruach HaKodesh, the light and the Breath of the Divine fire.

3. And here is wisdom: To know the name, the true name, infinite and eternal; for the Son of Man is as a star bound to a body, freed through the strife of this life;

4. And only by the struggling and toil of this world, the fallen creation, shall the star within be born, a new life.

5. Remember, therefore, that all which exists upon this earth is nothing more than that which has always existed, and that which has passed into being, and thou too, for there are no exceptions.

6. ¶ And freely do I give these endowments (or gifts) to the children of the Son of Man,

7. That they too might share this same understanding to shine as a divine light from the foundation of the world, to cut through the veil of darkness that lies in the hearts of mankind.

8. ¶ And in Asyma, the Mother, power is wisdom; She is Eden, the earth; all alike is one, thus perfecting the whole;

9. Therefore, be thou not proud, O man, in thy wisdom of the earth, for without humility it is ignorance to the wise.

10. ¶ And in Aviad, the Father, power is knowledge; He is the air and His words are written upon the night sky;

11. Therefore listen and take heed, that thou shall not be silent nor deceived when evil is spoken for Truth.

12. ¶ And in the Son, power is mercy;

13. He is the living water washing clean in the light shining above all, raining down upon the Earth, ending the drought and famine destroying all the living lands.

14. ¶ And in the Spirit (or breath), power is the strength of justice;

15. He is the fire of the Torah, He is the punishment, for only through Torah comes the freedom of mankind.

16. ¶ Fear not the Spirit of YHVH, once washed clean in mercy; for fear is the bondage that binds mankind in the darkness.

17. And in wisdom consider the Torah, for all thou seest is Torah; therefore, seek not that which is not of the Torah, for such exists only to deceive the mind and will of mankind.

18. And know too that our Mother, Wisdom, cometh to all Her children, even as they cometh unto Her in wisdom;

19. For though the light has been hidden by mankind, if we awake and are wise in Her, seeking for that which is hidden, Her mysteries shall be revealed:

20. Therefore, follow thy heart in understanding and do obey the Torah given thee, for the Torah is love eternal.

21. ¶ And when thou hast gained riches, thou shall be poor; but when thou shall give up thy good as the heart commands, thou shall be rich;

22. Know thou that thy heart is the key to the understanding of the soul.

23. And when thou hast the key, it becomes thy duty to share the secret and to guide all those seeking the path of righteousness that they go not astray,

24. For they that are lost cannot find the straight path; therefore, it is given thee to walk among mankind with love in thy heart, from the beginning and end, for this is the creation.

25. ¶ And if anyone should come unto thee for council, they should speak freely, or thou shall be deceived;

26. But if they hesitate to open their hearts in humility before thee, then thou shalt judge even according to the Torah that thou hast been given.

27. And to know what these have said in their hearts, return back their words in simplicity, but not in extravagant speech; do this and those that go before thee shall know the wisdom of El Elyon.

28. ¶ And know thou that silence is a pearl of great value, and insight gained from such cannot be purchased and any price,

29. For speech given to exalt the heart is a worthless vanity, lower than the dust:

30. Therefore, to be great among men and women, a Kohen Gadol and a Kohen Gadolah of El Elyon, be known for thy gentleness and thy meekness; seek not for servants but see the earth as thy friend.

31. ¶ Ask not for the companion of any that know not YHVH, yet give of thy time and all thou as unto any that need;

32. Debate not with they that know not Alohykm, yet by what is written upon their hearts hear their words,

33. For all that enter into the ears must come forth from the mouth filtered by the heart, and they that love thee as a friend shall share their hearts with thee:

34. Yet the fool shall regard knowledge as ignorance, and wisdom as vanity, and the things that are of great worth unto him are lost in death.

35. Wherefore let them cook their food upon the fire all the day, and when the night comes it shall be as cold as the frost, eat of it not.

36. ¶ Sarah, O Sarah! Listen to Shekinah, the voice of wisdom; for in Her is the voice of light!

37. Abraham, O Abraham! Listen to the voice of knowledge, for the mysteries are written there in the sky; unveiled them for the world has need of their light.

38. ¶ And ye who are now free from the bonds of darkness, ye are the creation of YHVH Alohykm;

39. Ye are Adam and ye are Eve, born from the fire of the earth and the breath of the sky.

40. And ye know that even as doth water falls upon the earth, so too doth fire burn, and the brightest fire shall gather more flames, therefore be ye one with fire of divine light.

41. ¶ Ye who have seen the fire that is alight from within, alight from the eternal fire to dwell eternally,

42. Quench not the inner flame, but share it that it may reform the earth and finish the creation.

43. And in this divine flame is that shall overcometh all things, and shall perfect all the things of the Earth.

44. But mankind cannot see the vision, therefore guard this wisdom, let it not be mocked,

45. For mankind is a fire burning in the night, and never is quenched is the darkness of his heart.

46. But if ye shall peek into the hearts of mankind ye shall see these are not free from the bondage and strife, and the toils;

47. For they understand not the fire, they being trapped in the shadow of night.


---
chapter: Chapter 8

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/8

chapter-aka: The Keys and Wisdom of numbers.

1. One is the unity of the Creator, infinite and eternal; and one is two halves that make a whole; for something cannot come from nothing, yet everything is and always has been whole: and know ye mankind that ye are and shall never be alone.

2. ¶ Two is the marriage of the creation; the formation and the unity of the heavens and the earth; it is the duality, the one that shall give and the one that shall receive; for this is the Torah: that in love is that which is received given, and in love is that which is given received.

3. ¶ Three is the balance and harmony of all things; it is the kindness in which all shall cultivate and grow; it is that fulfillment of the Torah, and the reward and the punishment; it is the harmony and the balance of all things.

4. ¶ Four is the doorway we must pass through in humility; it is the end of ego, the very death of mankind; it is the temple of YHVH in which we study and live the Torah; in it is the firmament of the heavens, and our shelter from the storm of the wrath of Alohykm.

5. ¶ Five is the endowment of life; it is the soul born within mankind; it is the very breath of Alohykm, the Creator; it is the very earth we walk upon, and the foundation of the soul; five is the creation: all creation, all that is, was, and shall ever be.

6. ¶ Six is the unity of Alohykm; it is perfection of the earth, the sealing of the heavens and the earth, the bridge connecting these two creations; it is the root of the tree, it is the tree itself growing into the heavens, it is all: north, south, east, west, up, and down; it is all and it is one.

7. ¶ Seven is the struggle; it is the rest; it is the sustenance of YHVH given to mankind; it is the Creator’s light, shining forth to correct the world; it is the struggle between our desires: that which we see as good, and the desires of El Elyon, righteousness.

8. ¶ Eight is the choice; it is the infinite of infinite; it is all that might be, yet all that truly is; it is the soul rising beyond mortal limitations; it is the resurrection; it is the free will of mankind.

9. ¶ Nine is the awakening; it is the realization of mankind; it is the womb of understanding; it is the kindness and mercy of the creation from the Creator; it is the final repentance of mankind; it is everything found that is worth finding, never to be lost again.

10. ¶ O my children! Ponder ye on that which I hath given thee, for in the knowledge of these keys are hidden the wisdom to transform mankind;

11. Reach ye ever upward, turn thy thoughts upward and as ye seek the light ye shall find life in the keys of that which I have given thee, a light on the pathway to the understanding ye seek;

12. Turn thy thoughts therefore inward, and the light shall pour from thee, for these are the numbers that are the very fruit that grows upon the tree of life.


---
chapter: Chapter 9

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/9

chapter-aka: The Keys of Knowledge and Wisdom.

1. One is the oneness of the Creator, eternal and infinite; and one is two halves that make a whole; for something cannot come from nothing, yet everything is and always has been whole: and know this, that mankind is and shall never be alone.

2. ¶ Two is the marriage of the creation; the unity in the formation of the heavens and the earth; it is the duality, the one that shall give and the one that shall receive; for this is the Torah: that in love is that which is given received, and in love is that which is received given.

3. ¶ Three is the cycle of creation, it is the flow as water from the earth to the heavens, and from the heavens unto the deep (abyss), and from the deep unto the earth again; it is the strength of youth, and the fortitude of the established, and it is the wisdom of age.

4. ¶ Four are the dimensions of the Heavens: east to west, north to south, and there is a wind to carry the Voice all about the Earth; four maketh fire from water, as YHVH doth send out His messengers to establish upon the Earth all of His ways.

5. ¶ Five is the sealing of the earth unto the heavens; that which is sealed upon the earth shall be sealed in the heavens, and that which is not sealed upon the earth shall be unsealed; in the end, all things that are, were, and ever will be shall be sealed unto YHVH, Valiant be His name.

6. ¶ Six is the depths of the abyss; in here lies the transgression and the transgressor, yet here too lay the mercy of YHVH, for all might return unto Him that created them; and if these shall ask, He shall place a ring upon their finger and prepare a feast in their name.

7. ¶ Seven is the crown of the Heavens; and He who sitteth upon the throne shall be blessed, and shall bless all they that desire Him, for He the sitteth upon the throne weareth the crown and shall show mercy upon all they that shall ask of him, for these are the humble.

8. ¶ And all of these are the Living Elohim; yea, all of these are truth eternal, and joy eternal, and love eternal; and blessed are all they that seek these, the seven days of creation; for these are the Torah of YHVH, these are the love of YHVH.

9. And the Torah is given that mankind might see and might know the love of YHVH, and to know YHVH, and to love YHVH;

10. Let those with ears hear the Torah of YHVH, and let those with eye see the creation of YHVH, that it is good.

11. ¶ And on the eighth day shall judgment come, and the works of mankind be counted.

12. And on the ninth day shall the work be finished and mankind shall be forever whole.

13. ¶ And when I received of these teachings, Kohen Gadol, the High Priest of YHVH, said unto me: The Torah and the rituals of this temple will be your guide,

14. Follow these both forward and backward, up and down, but not to one side nor to the other side;

15. Do this, following the path that you have been shown, and return unto Eden and taste of the fruit of the creation of YHVH.


---
chapter: Chapter 10

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/10

chapter-aka: The Torah of Truth.


1. From before the time when this earth was created, all of the spirits yet to be born stood before Kedem Qadam Kadmon and Alohykm,

2. And there, if we could see them, we would see that everything did appear even as it does now upon this earth, that they are a reflection of the same.

3. And when the spirits came here to dwell in the flesh they did take upon themselves their own forms, albeit in corruption, for this world is corruption.

4. ¶ The Torah of YHVH is given unto each generation, beginning with Adam and Eve even while they were in the Garden of Eden.

5. And so it was that YHVH sent the angel of YHVH and Raphael, the angel of healing and of secrets, to recite the Torah unto Adam and Eve.

6. And when the people first heard him, they fell down in fear of the Word of YHVH;

7. And it came to pass that Raphael gave mankind the Word a little at a time, even as they were prepared to receive.

8. And it is passed down by the wise unto all generations, and when lost it is revealed anew that the people of Elohim might speak the words,

9. That they might hear the Spirit of Elohim (Ruach HaKodesh) and listen to the instructions of YHVH.

10. And Adam and Eve saw the Torah with their own eyes, and everything they read in the book they did read with their spiritual eyes.

11. ¶ The Torah of YHVH is written upon stones made of sapphire, it can only be read by the soul;

12. It is written by the hands of mankind in their own language and in their own understanding that they might gain understanding through the four gates: in wisdom and in knowledge, in mercy and in strength.

13. There are those that say the Torah was written in the seven days of creation, but I say unto you:

14. That it was never written but always was, thus was it given upon the seventh day that YHVH might rest.

15. The Torah of YHVH contains the seven paths of truth, the twenty-two symbols (letters) of knowledge, the seventy-two branches of wisdom, and the one hundred forty-four circles of understanding.

16. ¶ And the seven paths all lead to the very tree of knowledge of good and evil, that mankind might gain wisdom in her branches.

17. And the seventy-two branches of the tree of life all grow out into infinity, that mankind might know truth: YHVH, our Elohim.

18. And the one hundred forty-four circles are infinite Sefirot, the fruit that grows upon the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

19. ¶ And all this that mankind, in their finite nature, might come unto an understanding of the infinite, for YHVH is infinite and YHVH is the knowable Elohim.

20. In every generation is the Torah, and the Torah is in every generation; the Torah is the record of the beginning and the end of every generation of mankind (Adam).

21. Adam and Eve did not keep the Torah secret, for the Torah is a parable, it is itself a secret, a mystery understood only by the soul awakened by the very breath of Alohykm (Ruach HaKodesh).

22. ¶ By the Torah were Adam and Eve given the signs and tokens, and they were taught to use them by Raphael, yet the angel was not the Torah.

23. The Torah was given to dispel all the doubts of mankind, that teshuvah would be known,

24. That temples would be built once mankind should leave paradise, and an atonement should need be made.

25. But that paradise should be both reward and punishment for mankind, as once mankind rested in the garden, they would see truth:

26. That mankind had never left Eden, but Ha’Elohim did hide it from there eyes.

27. For Alohykm is with mankind always, and all those that seek to belong to the ways of Elohim are protected,

28. That the goodness of El Elyon should always be that He should rule the earth, even as He rules the Heavens.

29. ¶ And the Torah of Adam was handed down until the days of Enoch, who was given the Torah for his generation, he and his wives;

30. Seth, the son of Adam wrote down the words of the Torah, yet in every generation they become corrupted, and their understanding lost,

31. ¶ And here I will teach you the Torah of Adam this day, in this temple.

32. And Enoch was given the Torah and Adam (mankind) had this precious stone until Enoch was taken from off the earth.

33. And when the waters of the flood subsided, the Torah was given unto Noah that mankind would be one, but mankind was divided.


---
chapter: Chapter 11

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/11

chapter-aka: The Torah of Adam - the Torah of Atzluth.

1. And this is the Torah of Adam, YHVH did come unto Adam and Eve, saying: I make between the Heavens and the Earth, and this covenant shall be a token of the eternal covenant (everlasting covenant) between The Creator and His Creation:

subchapter: ONE

2. ¶ Because of your love for the Creator, thou will be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth:

3. Have joy in your prosperity, every man love his wife, and every wife love her husband; every father love his son, and every mother love her daughter; favor love and affection;

4. And thou shall do this that you should have peace.

subchapter: TWO

5. ¶ Because of thy love for the Creator, thou will care for the Earth, for it is the creation of YHVH, in it is life and happiness:

6. All of this is given unto you that mankind might find joy therein.

subchapter: THREE

7. ¶ Because of thy love for the Creator, thou will watch over and care for the fish of the sea, and the fowl of the air, and every living thing that moveth upon the earth:

8. Do this that you shall be just and that you shall have justice.

subchapter: FOUR

9. ¶ See now that mankind has been given every herb bearing seed upon the face of all the earth,

10. And every tree in the which shall be the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you these shall be for meat:

11. Care for and cultivate their seed that they may flourish, and in them ye shall not go hungry.

subchapter: FIVE

12. ¶ See now that mankind has been given every beast of the earth, and every fowl of the air, and every fish in the sea; to you these shall be given for meat:

13. But know that their blood is precious uto me and I am YHVH, your creator; therefore only shed blood to keep your life.

subchapter: SIX

14. ¶ See now that every tree of the garden thou have been given, and from them you may freely eat, but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil ye shalt not eat:

15. And here is the agency of mankind: Thou mayest choose for thyself, for it is given unto thee;

16. Yet remember that it is forbidden, for in the day any eatest thereof they shalt surely die.

subchapter: SEVEN

17. ¶ And here is the Torah, upon which all the mitzvoth rest; yea, do this and all the Torah is fulfilled and ye shall be perfect: Love.

18. Even as all of the creation is given unto mankind, Alohykm shall send the rains and the droughts,

19. And Alohykm shall cause the sun to rise and to set, and Alohykm shall send the heat and the cold, being no respecter of persons;

20. Therefore, love even as YHVH and be perfected in Torah by this thy mitzvot, giving generously unto all.

21. ¶ And the Torah of Adam is the tree of life to those who take hold of her; those who hold her fast will be blessed, for it is even as a fire to cleanse thee.

22. ¶ And in that day that it was given, there came an angel with a sword and a scroll wrapped together, and that angel did say unto them:

23. If thou will keep what is written upon this scroll then shall you be saved from the sword;

24. But if thou are to burn it up, and eat it not, then at the ending shall the sword kill thee, for in it is the Torah of Atzluth.


---
chapter: Chapter 12

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/12

chapter-aka: The Torah of Enoch - the Torah of Beri'ah

1. And this is the Torah of Enoch, the covenant made between the Heavens and the Earth; and this covenant is as a token of the eternal covenant between The Creator and His Creation:

subchapter: ONE

2. ¶ The Creator of All Things, El Elyon; know that YHVH is ONE, YHVH is UNITY, YHVH is ETERNAL,

3. YHVH is not some elohim of man, made by their hands; therefore, YHVH is NEVER UNCHANGING (not stagnant), YHVH is NEVER ENDING:

4. All things bear witness that YHVH is omnipotent and omnipresent, who maketh the Torah, and bindeth all things in their bounds, who filleth Eternity, who was and is and will be from all Eternity to Eternity.

subchapter: TWO

5. ¶ YHVH is all knowing, it was by Wisdom that the World was made, and the eyes, knowledge and wisdom,

6. Observe all things, know all things, understand all things, and should YHVH turn away, all the creation would be destroyed.

7. And here, in the creation, shall stand no unfruitful tree, and every place shall be blessed, for such is the will of YHVH.

subchapter: THREE

8. ¶ Those that have been warned, all these shall warn another:

9. For the curse of mankind is ignorance, forgetting that which they have previously been blessed; for YHVH doth not curse mankind, nor the earth, nor her creatures;

10. But it is the evil of mankind that has planted the curse that has born weeds and thistles upon the ground,

11. For the evil fruits of mankind, yea the wickedness of mankind, these too shall bare seed;

12. Therefore, all those that have been warned, let them warn their neighbors.

subchapter: FOUR

13. ¶ Even as YHVH hath blessed the Sabbath day, let mankind keep the Sabbaths, let mankind find rest in YHVH, that they should be blessed:

14. For YHVH hath blessed all that is visible unto mankind, and all that is invisible unto mankind;

15. Therefore, shall the Sabbath be kept that mankind should remember YHVH and the paradise that was created for mankind,

16. And let mankind remember El Elyon on the Sabbaths, open thy mouth and praise YHVH.

subchapter: FIVE

17. ¶ Do not have any malice in thy heart against another, be it mankind or beast of the earth, or foul of the air, or fish of the sea: for all are the creation of YHVH:

18. In the last day, when thou shall seek charity before the face of YHVH, Alohykm shall look upon thee and thy charity, and what shall be seen of thee?

19. Wherefore, have charity for all the creation, for it is YHVH, and thou doth belong to Him.

20. Yea, bear thee the yoke of thy neighbors, and love they that hate thee, look down and lift up any that are fallen;

21. Be thou one to impart love that YHVH shall be seen and be known.

subchapter: SIX

22. ¶ Remember the creation, keep all from before the foundation in thy heart, make firm all that hath been given from the beginning unto mankind:

23. Speak thou with a humble tongue and a broken and contrite heart unto all, enter thy house clean;

24. In patience bring thy gifts before YHVH Alohykm,

subchapter: SEVEN

25. ¶ Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth; for thou art her creation.

26. ¶ Obey this Torah and thou shall escape judgment, shining forth as a light in the darkness, loving one another in all ages, and all times, and Zion shall be thine.

27. And this shall be an eternal covenant that the creation, that all they that seek the light shall find it, that the beloved of YHVH, Eden, be saved.

28. ¶ And YHVH shall set the iyrin in the cloud, that when YHVH shall bring the iyrin over the earth, they will appear in the skies, in the clouds;

29. And these will stand ready as a witness and as a reminder of the covenant which YHVH has made between the Heavens and the Earth, for every living creature of all flesh.

30. And the iyrin will be in the cloud to bear the signs and the tokens that YHVH shall never again flood the earth with the waters to destroy all flesh.

31. And YHVH will look upon it and remember the Everlasting Covenant that He made with the fathers,

32. And the children will look upon it and know that when mankind walks in teshuvah, Zion will come again upon the earth.

33. ¶ And this is the Everlasting Covenant: That when our children’s children embrace the Torah and look upward, Zion will look downward knowing,

34. And all the heavens will shake with gladness, and the earth shall tremble with joy;

35. And the General Assembly of the Church of the Firstborn shall come down out of heaven, and possess the earth, and shall have peace until the end does come.

36. ¶And this is the Everlasting Covenant between the Earth and the Heavens,

37. And YHVH made with all those that came before us, and shall make with all of our seed, for time and all eternity.

38. And in that day that it was given, there came an angel with a sword in one hand and a scroll in the other, and that angel did say:

39. If thou will keep what is written upon this scroll in my left hand then shall you be saved from the sword of mercy in my right hand;

40. But if thou are to burn it up, and eat it not, then at the ending shall the sword kill thee, for in it is the Torah of Beri'ah.

41. And the iyrin sit in the clouds even to this day, to watch over every living creature that moves upon the earth.


---
chapter: Chapter 13

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/13

chapter-aka: The Torah of Noah - the Torah of Yetzirah

1. And YHVH sent Noah and Na’amah to free mankind from the floods, and they were given the Torah, and the Torah of Noah was taught unto mankind:

subchapter: ONE

2. ¶ YHVH hath established His covenant with mankind, therefore thou shalt worship El Elyon as one people:

3. Worship not the elohim made by the hands of men, for YHVH is not a god of man’s creation.

4. YHVH is unity, the Creator; be ye one as the creation.

subchapter: TWO

5. ¶ Be ye fruitful and multiply, breed abundantly upon the earth, and multiply therein.

subchapter: THREE

6. ¶ Into thy hands hath been given every green herb, every fruit of the tree, every beast of the earth, every fowl of the air, and everything that moves upon the earth, and all the fish that swim in the waters:

7. YHVH hath given all these unto mankind as food, but the blood of all flesh ye have been given for meat, this ye shall not eat; for the blood is to be sealed upon the ground.

8. The blood is the life; therefore, the blood shall not be shed, except for meat, or to save your lives; the blood of every beast will I require at your hands.

subchapter: FOUR

9. ¶ Whosoever kills another human in murder, to shed their blood, YHVH shall seek their blood;

10. For mankind shall not shed the blood of their fellow man; mankind is made in the image of Elohim.

subchapter: FIVE

11. ¶ All mankind are brothers and sisters, thou shalt preserve the life of one another in teshuvah, for ye are all one race and one people,

12. For in the image of YHVH was mankind made; therefore, love one another, succor those that stand in need of succoring;

13. Yea, give of your substance unto all they that stand in need; suffer not that the beggar putteth up his petition unto thee in vain.

subchapter: SIX

14. ¶ Be ye fruitful and multiply; bring forth thy children throughout the land and multiply the children of Elohim therein (missionary work).

subchapter: SEVEN

15. ¶ Remember this Torah, and the Torah of thy fathers in mercy even as YHVH is merciful and saved mankind from the flood, for this is thy mitzvoth;

16. Teach this to thy children that all shall be well unto thee unto the last generation.

17. ¶ And the Torah of Noah is the unity of mankind in mercy for all those who take hold of her; those who hold fast unto her will be blessed.

18. And in that day that it was given, there came an angel with a sword in his left hand and a scroll in his right, and that angel did say into them:

19. If thou will keep what is written upon this scroll then shall you be saved from the justice of this sword;

20. But if thou are to burn it up, and eat it not, then at the ending shall the sword kill thee, for in it is the Torah of Yetzirah.


---
chapter: Chapter 14

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/14

chapter-aka: The Torah of Melchizedek - the Torah of Assiah

1. And now, I shall give unto thee the Torah of this generation; and this shall be thy Torah and the covenant between YHVH and mankind unto all generations,

2. And it shall be unto you an eternal covenant, for this is the Torah of Melchizedek;

3. Yea, this is the Torah as it was given unto me, and I give it unto thee, Abraham, that thou should give it unto all thy generations, even unto as many as are worthy of it.

4. Yea, this is the Torah unto all those that would seek to enter into this path and grow in Torah unto the Torah of Adam, even the Torah of Atzilah;

5. And this shall be thy mitzvah, and the mitzvah of all they that desireth to drink of that cup of the Torah of Yetzirah, unto the Torah of Beri'ah, even unto the Torah of Atzilah;

6. For until one can drink from the first cup, taking this Torah into themselves, they cannot partake of the cup of the pure Torah of YHVH:

7. And here is a secret, the Torah of YHVH is Love; and this is the mystery of YHVH.

subchapter: ONE

8. ¶ The Torah is this: thou shall circumcise thy heart; do this that thou might live the Torah and know YHVH.

9. ¶ And this Torah is given in that the moment that the heart is pierced, and a soul is born unto YHVH, and Adam and Eve awaken inside of them, and they shall begin their journey back into Eden.

10. If thou should obey the Torah, then thou art as the dog that doth follow his master home, and this is good.

11. ¶ Yea, YHVH seeks those that seek to see His face; for the children of man may know their Fathers and obey them or obey them not,

12. But to know Aviad (the Eternal Father), mankind must do more than obey, mankind must seek His face if they are to know Him;

13. Therefore, circumcise thy heart and know El Elyon, that Alohykm be with you.

14. ¶ Seek thou Wisdom, turning thy thought inward, opening up thy mind unto the light!

15. Seek thou Knowledge, that thou shalt see all that leadeth mankind unto that light!

16. The path to understanding is clear, the door is open unto all that shall circumcise their hearts,

17. And the light of YHVH shall shine forth even as the sun breaks through the darkness each morning, growing in the sky to light up the creation.

18. And this is the light and life of the world, it is the wisdom and knowledge from the heavens unto the earth.

19. And this is the beginning of the creation of mankind, for it is that light that we shall follow to find our way home.

20. ¶ And in that day that I was given the Torah, there came an angel with a sword in his hands and a scroll in his mouth, and that angel did pierce my heart, and he fed the scroll unto me, saying:

21. If thou will keep what is written upon this scroll then shall you be saved from the justice and given mercy in the strength of YHVH;

22. But if thou are to burn it up, and eat it not, then at the ending shall the sword kill thee, for in it is the Torah of Assiah.


---
chapter: Chapter 15

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/15

chapter-aka: The Teachings of the Torah of Olamot

1. Listen now, O Abraham: You are a choice seer and a prophet of YHVH, and thy wife, Sarah, an emissary of Alohykm;

2. And I am now Kohen Gadol, the High Priest of YHVH, and I pass this Torah to you, and you shall be the Kohen Gadol (High Priest) and the Kohanot Gadolah (High Priestess) of El Elyon as I am to leave this plane.

3. What then of this Torah of light? What doth their teachings mean? Behold, I say unto you that they are the way forward and backward;

4. Yea, they are the straight path that is the eternal circle that is the eternal round of the growth of mankind as we enter Eden, then leave it again, only to return back when we are ready, YHVH be willing.

5. ¶ Know, Abraham and Sarah, that light and truth are your eternal heritage, that the darkness of this world is but a veil.

6. Listen then to the voice of that wisdom that is freely given unto thee this day, that you shall know the mysteries, being the teachers of these things unto the world.

7. All things are given in their order, and all things are given as they are due; therefore, I share with you this Torah, and in it are the four worlds:

8. Olam Assiah is the first Torah, it is when YHVH hears our prayers;

9. We are thrust out of the garden of Eden and El Elyon and Alohykm do see us, yet it is when our hearts are pierced that we finally feel the Breath of Alohykm.

10. It is through the broken heart and the contrite spirit that we learn the first Torah, the Torah of the Earth, entering the first world, growing in and from the earth and her wisdom.

11. And so it is the ministry of the first endowment to shepherd those that are born anew into Olam Assiah, for as mankind struggles upward, all must start breaking through the darkness and into the light.

12. And thus is the soul born, sealed in the heart into a light eternal, and the veil begins to tear, and the blackness of night is broken by the stars of the morning as they move in their order, showing mankind the way.

13. ¶ Olam Yetsirah is the second Torah, where the first creation takes form as we are first born in truth, then in the second we must grow in truth.

14. We have tasted of the fruit that cast us out of Eden, and we now must learn what we know: good from evil, and be washed clean by the waters of mercy.

15. To aid us in our battle, the warriors of light are given the Torah of Covenant: YHVH teaches us the good that we do know to avoid the evil.

16. And what is it that is good? It is the Torah of the Waters, we are washed clean in service to the creation;

17. Yea, we speak unto Aviad, and we listen; yet though we are in the mercy of YHVH, we are not yet in the Presence.

18. In this we learn who we are, for we are the servants of El Elyon, and we teach by our actions.

19. ¶ Olam Beriah is the third Torah, after we grow in truth we are able to keep ourselves the light, the very truth our souls are born from.

20. Even as the light moves through the air, the knowledge of the creation unfolds within us, transforming our being and the knowledge from the very source and the darkness is extinguished.

21. This is the Torah that has lifted mankind from the earth, for it is the Torah of Air,

22. And rising into the air ye shall see all things new and old, and even the sun, the moon, and the stars shall be within thy reach.

23. ¶ Olam Atsiluth is the fourth Torah, where mankind is one again in the Presence of YHVH and the Alohykm.

24. And here is the foundation of all things, and the harmony of all things, and the understanding of all things, and the crown of YHVH.

25. Here the children of Alohykm are home, not to be lost in the light of El Elyon, but to be free in the love of YHVH.

26. Here rests all wisdom, and all mercy, and all justice, and all knowledge; here thou shall find the victory and the splendor.

27. Here shall those purified by the flame of the fire of Alohykm be welcomed home, knowing the truth of their heritage, the divine lineage of mankind, for it is the Torah of Fire.

28. ¶ And all that are born in the light, here upon the earth and learn of and become the living embodiments of this Torah and these four worlds learn the sacred truth:

29. We become not but that which we always and eternally be.

30. And this is truth divine, that when the heavens and the earth are one, a mirror of divine where the will of Alohykm is known and obeyed, then they keys will be held:

31. The Priest and the Priestess that do prepare the earth for the coming of the heavens shall, through the will of YHVH, be in tune;

32. And then shall the High Priest and the High Priestess, they themselves holding the keys, and with authority given them by YHVH Elohim, bring the heavens to the earth.

33. ¶ In this things are all things one, the working of the miracles being one with the knowing of the will of YHVH;

34. And then shall the Father, the Sun, and the mother, the Moon, give birth to that earth that the Mother did carry in her belly, and that the Breath of Elohim did nourish.

35. And then shall the earth be consumed in the fire of the justice of YHVH Alohykm, and the earth shall burn with fire even and as was once washed clean in the waters of the mercy of YHVH;

36. And then shall YHVH claim this, the creation, as His own, for He is the very Creator of the heavens and the earth.

37. ¶ And how shall you, Abraham, and you, Sarah, obtain these keys? You shall walk, even as our fathers, Adam and Eve, did walk and were malau (filled or endowed) with power from on high:

38. First through the doors of the four malau (the four endowments or the four worlds), then through each of the four doors of the four malau.

39. The first of these would be the four malau of Tzedeq (Hebrew, peace; modern, Melchizedek) and Migdalah (Hebrew, tower; modern, Magdalene), as were given unto Adam and Eve;

40. And this malau is of Tzedeq and Migdalah for it is the very peace brought to the earth from the heavens given to grow YHVH in the earth, for the earth is His footstool.

41. ¶ And before YHVH was nothing, for YHVH always ever was, and ever shall be;

42. And YHVH is the Lord of Hosts, the Creator of the Heavens and the Earth, and all that is above and all that is below;

43. And all that is seen, and all that is unseen; and all that is ever heard, and all that which cannot be heard;

44. And in YHVH all things are, ever were, and always will be; for YHVH is Truth, and YHVH is Light; and YHVH is Unity, and YHVH is All.


---
chapter: Chapter 16

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/16

chapter-aka: The Threads of the Garments of Creation

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapter 13 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. And as I have told thee, YHVH did gather him up, that children of the light, even the Morning Stars, and they looked down upon the void;

2. And so it was that the darkness was separated from darkness, and the earth was established that the children of Elohim might know of themselves truth.

3. ¶ And when our first parents were in their freedom, they at the first did submit to their temptations and were thrust out of the Presence of YHVH to be born, from the womb of Eden into the world of mankind.

4. And before these were cast out, they were given the first malau—Adam of atzluth tzedeq and Eve of atzluth migdalah, which is one priesthood—that they should know and that they should be prepared.

5. And these were washed and anointed, even as I have washed thee this day.

6. ¶ And when they were made clean and given them the robes of their priesthood, and with these their new names, YHVH did send unto them Raphael, that he should teach them;

7. And these are the words of Raphael into Adam and Eve, and thus they are the words of YHVH unto you this day:

8. ¶ The root of the commandments of YHVH is love; and the love of YHVH is the thread of the Garments of the Priesthood.

9. ¶ Behold, thy ears have been anointed, that thou might hear the Word of YHVH:

10. And the first thread of the Garments of the Priesthood is in harmony with the ears; thus, do not be deceived by hearing lies, nor hear the ending of the Word of YHVH.

11. Straight is the path to YHVH Elohim, and all those who are upon the path shall hear the decrees.

12. ¶ Behold, thine eyes have been anointed, that thou might behold the glory of YHVH:

13. And the second thread of the Garments of the Priesthood is in harmony with the eyes; thus, thou shall see by raising up the eyes.

14. Do not let your eyes brim with tears, that after weeping they do not close;

15. The eyes are as windows into the soul; speak one to another by the power of the eyes, lest ye forget the words seen;

16. Yea, cast your eyes toward the salvation of YHVH and see that the eye of revelation is that of understanding,

17. And in that understanding the Crown of Ahyeh Asher Ahyeh (Keter) shall be given thee; and it doth rest between the eyes.

18. ¶ Behold your noses have been anointed, that ye might smell the sweet offerings of YHVH:

19. The third thread of the Garments of the Priesthood harmonizes with the nose.

20. Do not let thy nose be irritated or excited by the sweet scent of idolatry,

21. Neither should thou desire to keep the offerings given unto thee by YHVH to thyself;

22. But rather, smell the sweet scents of the Sabbath, and other beautiful things of YHVH.

23. ¶ Behold thy mouth hath been anointed, that thou might speak forth praises unto YHVH:

24. The fourth thread of the Garments of the Priesthood harmonizes with the mouth.

25. Seek for patience; do not let your tongues speak words out of anger;

26. Yea, do not labor to make an oath without the intent to keep it, for all oaths are written in the hearts of mankind;

27. Therefore, keep thy oath that thy promises be sure.

28. Do not deceive by words or speaking the name of YHVH in vain; do not make an oath speaking in falsehoods; and this that thy words be pure.

29. Yea, perfection is of YHVH Elohim alone, all else are made perfect in YHVH; therefore, let Ruach HaKodesh be thy bridle.

30. ¶ Behold thy neck hath been anointed, that it should bear up thy head:

31. Thus, the fifth thread of the Garments of the Priesthood harmonizes with the throat.

32. Do not swallow any abominations, but do eat unleavened bread, which is to say, only in righteousness and moderation.

33. ¶ Behold, thy hands have been anointed, that they might be strong and wield the sword of justice in defense of truth and virtue:

34. Thus, the sixth thread of the Garments of the Priesthood harmonizes with the hands.

35. Do not lay thy hands in sin, do not steal, but do take hold of the Word of God;

36. Yea, open the door of the house of YHVH Elohim with the hand and bind the signs and tokens by the means of it.

37. ¶ Behold, thy loins have been anointed, that thou might be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, that thou may have joy in your posterity:

38. Thus, the seventh thread of the Garments of the Priesthood harmonizes with the loins.

39. Do not commit adultery, but to thy own house be true, and this that thou might have health in the navel, marrow in the bones, strength in the loins and in the sinews;

40. And that the power in the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God should be upon you, and upon your posterity through all generations of time, and throughout all eternity.

41. Therefore, be fruitful and multiply; have joy in thy posterity;

42. Yea, do this and YHVH, thy Elohim, shall circumcise thy heart and the hearts of thy descendants.

43. ¶ Behold, thy feet hath been anointed, that they might be swift in the paths of righteousness and truth:

44. And the eighth thread of the Garments of the Priesthood harmonizes with the feet.

45. Thus, do not walk about after strange gods and thou shalt not stumble and fall;

46. Yea, walk after YHVH Alohykm; journey by all paths, as commanded by YHVH Elohim, as spoken unto thee by Ruach HaKodesh;

47. And watch thy feet as you walk to the house of YHVH Elohim, that thou shall do so in supplication before YHVH.

48. ¶ Mankind is to remember these eight threads for all time; let them be written in thy heart:

49. Ears first, eyes second, nose third, mouth fourth, neck fifth, hands sixth, loins seventh, and feet eighth.

50. Yea, do not sin by these, for the heart is with each.

51. Behold, do consider therefore the thoughts of all that you shalt meet:

52. Love thy neighbor as thyself, for to love one another is to love YHVH Elohim.

53. Yea, do these and ye shall be blessed; So mote it be, Amen.

54. ¶ And these were the words unto Adam and Eve on the garments of the priesthood, and so too are they my words unto you, O Abraham and Sarah.


---
chapter: Chapter 17

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/17

chapter-aka: The Torah and the Mitzvah of the Rabbi

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapter 15 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. And now I, Melchizedek shall impart unto you wisdom that thou will understand the first malau—

2. Abraham of atzluth tzedeq and Sarah of atzluth migdalah, which is one priesthood after the order of the Son of Man—

3. To give thee knowledge in these things that thou might have power in YHVH, in His Priesthood after the order of the Son of God.

4. And once I have taught thee this, which I do give unto thee freely, so too shall thou impart of these things freely to the children of men;

5. And this that they might have wisdom, that the light of YHVH should flow out, breaking free from that veil of light to destroy the darkness.

6. But be thou humble in this wisdom, Abraham and Sarah, teach these things as a parable, that the ignorant might learn, and that the wise shall know;

7. ¶ And when they that are wise shall come before thee, listen unto them, and take heed, for this wisdom is in all;

8. Hold not thy tongue when evil is spoken as truth yet keep thy peace and let that light shine above all,

9. For truth shall come softly and carry with it the peace of YHVH or it is not truth.

10. Wars and contention are the ways of our adversary, that bringer of confusion; yea, he doth wait in the darkness to devour.

11. Fear not, they that overstep the Torah shall seek justice, and the justice of YHVH they shall find, it shall not be as well for them as they do imagine in the vanity of their hearts.

12. ¶ O Abraham! O Sarah! Will you learn from the wisdom of Raphael, who is Raziel, who is the healer of YHVH, and the keeper of the mysteries of Alohykm?

13. For after Adam and Eve were given the first malau—Adam of assiah tzedeq and Eve of assiah migdalah, which is one priesthood—Raphael did teach them further, saying unto them:

14. ¶ The wise, they are blessed, they who by YHVH Elohim are given the mysteries of this, the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

15. And the light of YHVH was given unto you that ye should teach all peoples the truth of YHVH;

16. Yea, and this is the key and power of the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God; and behold, this is also the very cornerstone of His glory:

17. And here is the secret word: YHVH.

18. But the world has not yet learned the secret; yet the word is like milk and honey on the tongues of the righteous.

19. Everything given of this creation is now yours to behold and to care for, YHVH hath given you dominion over them; do so in the name of YHVH.

20. As you leave this garden, the Torah shall not be foreign unto you.

21. ¶ A commandment I give ye, grasp it freely yet not from myself, for as the mitsvah of YHVH:

22. Get ye up when the sun is high up in the heat of the day and pray to that Elohim that did create you;

23. And this ye shall do neither by commandment nor to give pleasure unto yourselves, but that you should learn the character of Ha’Elohim.

24. ¶ And as you, Adam, and you, Eve, were expelled from this paradise and from the presence of YHVH, but only for a short time,

25. Ye are to turn away from all evil and walk in the path of righteousness, that by the grace of YHVH thou might see the face of Elohim again while upon this earth.

26. Thus now I do tell thee: The greatest mystery is the sanctification of YHVH;

27. And whoever is worthy shall go directly to this secret, and none shall be able to stop them, for they shall know.

28. And therefore, do I say unto thee: Reveal the secrets of Alohykm only to those who serve YHVH;

29. But there shall come a time when all shall know these mysteries;

30. Yea, and every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess on the last day that the Son of Man doth reign over all things in the heavens and upon this earth.

31. ¶ Here is truth: There are three secrets that hide within the Torah, and all the mysteries do correspond to these three things.

32. The first mitzvah is the first wisdom: Glory be unto YHVH; The glory of YHVH is the first secret to be unlocked.

33. Yea, the beginning of wisdom is the glory of YHVH, which corresponds to three wisdoms: The outer wisdom, the inner wisdom, and the depth of wisdom.

34. When thou leave this garden, thou shall build a house of wisdom, and the foundation of that house shall be the Glory of YHVH.

35. The wise shall open their hearts to this secret.

36. And know too that there are only three types of secrets: The secret of the path, the secret of beginnings, and the secret of the Torah of YHVH.

37. And I say into you, and you shall say unto all those that will hear you, that these secrets may only be known by the grace of Elohim Shaddai.

38. ¶ To return unto Eden, and to bring the heavens unto the earth, thou must hear the three types of reverence:

39. The first reverence doth glorify YHVH, and the second doth glorify the Ruach HaKodesh, and the third doth glorify the face of Aviad.

40. Know too that to fear YHVH is to love Alohykm and to serve YHVH and His creation in love.

41. Know ye not that mankind shall only find happiness in their creation by giving honor unto YHVH, who is the Creator?

42. Therefore, the fear of Alohykm is fear of YHVH, the honor of Alohykm is the honor of YHVH, and the love of Alohykm is the love of YHVH.

43. And all this must be done in love; seek love in thy hearts, write love in thy hearts, and you will keep this Torah;

44. For this is the whole Torah, yea, this is the fullness of truth: Thou shalt love YHVH, thy Elohim and honor Him.

45. Yea, glorify Aviad that thou not fall into the temptation as did Lilith, for it is not permissible for mankind to serve Alohykm in temptation.

46. Stand ye in the name of Yachad Yachid Echad! See that He descends from above!

47. And it is written upon the pillars in heaven: Mankind is beloved; so it is that to love YHVH is to love thy neighbors.

48. Ruach HaKodesh, the breath of YHVH, will speak unto thee as thou walk the paths outside this garden, and shall guide thy children, even those who do obey Him;

49. Therefore, you will learn to respect Alohykm, only then will you know how to love.

50. ¶ Know too that mankind is not want to listen to foreign council:

51. Yea, mankind shall sing praises unto YHVH with ease, but will they know Him?

52. Therefore, respect the Creator of the heavens and earth all your life that as thou should know Him, thy seed too shall know YHVH.

53. Yea, write the love of YHVH in thy hearts, and carry with you always the fear of YHVH, Lord of the Hosts of Heaven, in your hearts.

54. Yea, this love is in reverence, and this reverence is the purity of YHVH.

55. ¶ And I say unto thee: All they who show reverence is favored by YHVH;

56. Yea, they who reverence the Creator and they who reverence this the creation; and more bless shall be all they who shall reverence both the Creator and His creation!

57. And all shall know these as their spirits shall be pure, having given birth to Nephesh.

58. Rejoice, therefore, in the Glory of the light of YHVH!

59. ¶ Thou hast been born from darkness into that true light, and thou have been separated from those who are yet lost.

60. And the time soon cometh that the light shall shine unto thee from the waters that thou shall honor the Elohim that did speak unto thee in this garden:

61. And that honor is the love, and with love comes the reverence, and from the reverence comes understanding;

62. And this I say unto thee: This love shall grow thousands upon thousands of generations, even to the quickening of every soul; even so, Amen.


---
chapter: Chapter 18

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/18

chapter-aka: The Torah and the Mitzvah of the Kohen and Kohanot

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapter 17 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. And now, Abraham, father, and Sarah, mother, thou hast received the second malau—

2. Abraham of beri'ah tzedeq and Sarah of beri'ah migdalah, which is one priesthood after the order of the Son of Man—

3. Therefore; tame thine heart that thy heart might guide thee on thy journey.

4. When YHVH, El Elyon, should bless thee, and YHVH shall indeed bless thee more than He hath already blessed thee, let not thine ears be weary.

5. ¶ The things of this creation are a blessing unto the servants of YHVH yet will be as a dark veil that doth cover the eyes of all they that love this creation more than the Creator.

6. Let thy heart guide thee and make thy way straight! Listen to the Voice that thou should not be taken off that straight path.

7. They that are lost amongst the children of men may still find their way, if they will but seek the heart for counsel.

8. ¶ The love of the Creator is written upon the hearts of they who serve YHVH, let thine heart be open, listen more than thou doth speak, give honor to all they that seek it, honoring them just below YHVH, but seek not for honor to own.

9. Be known for thy gentle ways, seek to know all they that come seeking thy wisdom,

10. Struggle with all they that seek thy guidance and prepare the earth for the coming of YHVH to the earth.

11. ¶ Know that the sacrifice given unto YHVH is to be received by those in need, waste not that which thou hath been given that it profiteth not the poor and the needy.

12. Remember the widow and the fatherless child, they are given into thy care, forgive them and forget them not:

13. And in this thou shall prepare the earth for the coming of YHVH.

14. ¶ And when Adam and Eve were given the second malau, being ordained Kohen and Kohanot, YHVH sent unto them the voice of instruction from Raphael,

15. And Adam and Eve were taught about the offerings in sacrifices given for YHVH, saying:

16. ¶ There are three types of mercy: the offering of ascension, the offering of thanksgiving, and the offering of purification.

17. Justice is also divided thus into three categories: Celestial love, Terrestrial prayer, and Telestial honor (or reverence).

18. And the offering of ascension corresponds to love, for these are given to feed the creation.

19. And the offering of thanksgiving is like unto a petition to the heavens, given in an abundance of joy and in gratitude towards Alohykm.

20. The offering of purification is the atonement, even as a symbol of Yachad Yachid Echad, who should be die by those whom He doth love.

21. Both the offering of thanksgiving and the offering of purification are given to aid and strengthen the living body; express this love in thy prayers and pray in devotion.

22. Serve YHVH out of love and charity, and in the offering of ascension thou shalt give honor and respect to the kingdoms of Elohim, the bodies Celestial, the bodies Terrestrial and the bodies Telestial—even those of the sun, and the moon, and the stars.

23. ¶ YHVH did not create the world with hands, but by His Word did He create all things, and this because of His infinite wisdom and His infinite glory.

24. YHVH is great in wisdom, knowing all, and infinite in mercy, loving all, and infinite in righteousness.

25. YHVH Elohim keepeth all things, filleth the upper and lower worlds, for that which is created in the upper worlds gives birth to all things.

26. YHVH, in wisdom, reveals to mankind the secrets of the creation, giving unto mankind the knowledge of good and evil to all those who eat of the fruits of that tree.

27. And now YHVH doth look out at His creation and the desolation of this world, yet he doth not repent for wickedness is not in Him.

28. ¶ Behold, all blessings come to the righteous, they who love YHVH; therefore, sing His praises and glorify His name, for His deeds are great and mighty!

29. The offering of ascension is sacrifice by petition; therefore, give unto those in need out from the Holy Place:

30. That place is blessed and will be the temple of YHVH until Yachid Yachid Echad comes.

31. When you are worshiping YHVH, your Elohim, I will bring death and healing by the will of Ruach HaKodesh,

32. And with your voice and your prayers you will be born anew in the piercing of thy heart, born of the broken heart and a contrite spirit.

33. Yea, pray for all good things, that they may give birth to Nephesh, breathing new life into the mortal body.

34. This is the very foundation of wisdom and knowledge: From wisdom, from mercy, from knowledge, from judgment;

35. And these do speak one to another for understanding is only the crown of mankind, the light of day will come to dispel the darkness.

36. ¶ Let the light heal her, for she is the Elah Asyma, the Shekinah, the Ashurah of YHVH;

37. She will conceive and give birth to a son, even the Son of Man; and his heart will be pierced, and he will stand firm before Alohykm.

38. If ye will be triumphant in the service of YHVH, thou shalt leave all wealth, honor and the things of this world behind for the sake of Alohykm.

39. Pray ye now unto YHVH as a true Kohen and a Kohanot of YHVH, and offer unto Him sacrifices in thanksgiving.

40. ¶ Honor and serve YHVH with great fear, to this that mankind might be saved from the curse of the earth where ye do live.

41. For what is the punishment from Eden, which is this sanctuary? I say into thee that it can be a blessing.

42. And thou shall see that Eden, she is longer than the earth and wider than the sea!

43. Do not cry out in pain, but seek relief from the grief, the hurt and the pain of this separation.

44. ¶ Do not buy that which is sold unto thee by foreigners, nor make praises to the elohim created by the hands of men.

45. ¶ Do not come to death willingly, yea, do not speak evil; but fill thy days with good and the blessings of the creation of YHVH.

46. Because thou know YHVH, and you have tasted of the goodness of YHVH, it is given unto you to save others from suffering, misery, destruction; yea, even fire and that burden of sin.

47. Once outside the garden, the wicked are prepared for judgment and question it not; so mote it be.

48. ¶ Honor YHVH, worship Him, give thy offering of purification and teach thy sons and thy daughters in the ways of Alohykm.

49. Make the these three offerings, the offering of ascension, the offering of thanksgiving, and the offering of purification in thy temples, making these with love, prayer and honor unto YHVH.

50. ¶ The beginning of wisdom is to fear YHVH and the love of Alohykm; therefore, love thy neighbor as yourself, and love YHVH thy Elohim.

51. When strength denied you and thou found that mercy in YHVH, thy righteous hearts burned like fire;

52. Therefore, fear YHVH and keep thy mitsvoth, pouring onto YHVH thy honor and thy love.

53. From honor and love came the great flame; yea, everything was created by the Word, born of the love of YHVH.

54. ¶ Behold, thou shall worship Elohim Shaddai: Thou shalt honor YHVH by keeping all the Torah, and to keep His Torah, thou shall obey the Torah of love.

55. Cry out in supplication and hall down in worship before El Elyon!

56. Soften thy heart and accept YHVH without delay.

57. ¶ Avoid all evil, yet blame not the sinners; yea, thou shalt teach them the truth of YHVH;

58. For those who despise the honor of El Elyon, know that it is the judgment of Alohykm to deny mercy to sin:

59. All they with ears to hear will listen to these words and understand them.

60. ¶ Now I command thee to teach thy children to refuse that which is evil, not cultivating evil in their hearts;

61. Yea, and do teach them to neglect their own desires, but to glorify the name of El Eyyon.

62. ¶ Look and see, thy house is set in the middle, between the blades of that double edged sword.

63. The Humble will pay their respects as they gather within their homes; there they shall stand before Shekinah (the Presence) and serve YHVH.

64. Honor YHVH, thy Elohim, in thy prayers and thou shalt find peace in thy meditations and Ha’Elohim shall save thee from all evil.

65. Hide thyself in the light of the knowledge of Elohim, living in the temple of El Elyon.

66. ¶ Ask YHVH to save thee from the trap that doeth lead many of the children of men astray.

67. Return to YHVH in prayer, saying: YHVH, hear the words that come forth from out of my mouth, save us from the snare of those that lie in wait to deceive us!

68. Know that all they that pray unto El Eyon do so truly seeking the blessings of Abba Aviad Avinu and Malkath ha’Shamayim;

69. Therefor, by the grace of YHVH El Elyon I do say unto you: Go forth and multiply.

70. ¶ Elohim Shaddai sees the evil ones and will punish them in His time; therefore, be silent about those who do not seek the wisdom of YHVH:

71. Come from the secret that Abba Aviad Avinu and Malkath ha’Shamayim doth reveal unto you; so mote it be, Amen.


---
chapter: Chapter 19

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/19

chapter-aka: The Torah and the Mitzvah of the Zaqunot

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapter 19 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. The light that is separated from the darkness, that the earth might be formed, this light is the knowledge of YHVH, and the darkness pride that sees that light as foolishness.

2. In their ignorance, the light proveth to harm those living in death; therefore death is their food and sheol becomes them.

3. Those wise in the wisdom of YHVH, let that light of YHVH overflow from their pierced heart that it should flood the earth; yet the mouth is kept silent.

4. ¶ O Abraham, O Sarah! Listen to that light as it pours through thee, for in it lay the mysteries of the creation, as thou prepare to break this world free from the bonds of darkness!

5. And having received the third malau—Abraham of yetzirah tzedeq and Sarah of yetzirah migdalah, which is one priesthood after the order of the Son of Man—

6. Thou was at the first and there ye were give the keys to prepare this earth for the coming of the heavens, and now thou hast been prepared!

7. Now the keys have been given to you both, that ye should break this world from the bonds of darkness,

8. That the matter and spirit be one, that the heavens be brought to the earth to heal this creation.

9. ¶ Even as the water of the mercy of YHVH doth pour down from the heavens to heal the earth, and doth ascend back into the heavens that this creation might be healed in that great mercy,

10. So too doth the fire of Alohykm pour down from the heavens to cleanse the earth, and doth ascend back into the heavens that this creation might be cleansed in that great judgment.

11. This fire is the light of YHVH, it doth pour out through the inner vessel that is the heart,

12. And it overcometh all this, and it doth penetrate all things, and it doth overcometh all things.

13. Now, open thine eyes to see that vision of YHVH prepared for thee.

14. ¶ Remember, remember, Abraham and Sarah, even as Raphael said unto our first parents:

15. Think of Elohim Shaddai and Shiloh, Yachad Yachid Echad, He that should be sent into the world.

16. This is to honor He whose name guards and protects against whispering spirits and familiar spirits;

17. Yea, thou doth live under the protection of YHVH; therefore, pray at that time that the name YHVH will be written on the hearts of the people:

18. Pray ye that the hearts of the servants of YHVH shall pick up that rod of iron, taking the Word of YHVH into their hearts,

19. To remember that holy name, that they would drive away those whispering spirits and those familiar spirits in the name of YHVH.

20. ¶ Praise God in thy prayers; yea, give thanks to the ruler of the heavens, praise the Elect of the Alohykm while thou art here upon the earth,

21. For it was written before the world was made: If the sons and daughters of Elohim are sent from heavens to earth, in glory will those that remember YHVH return to their Creator.

22. ¶ Write thy prayers in glorious letters with the flame of fire in thy heart, and restore her to her former glory, saith YHVH;

23. Therefore, by means of the nine Sefirot, one can find the crown upon the Mount of Elohim, in the House of Prayer, even the House of YHVH.

24. Bind thy thoughts to the crown and tie thy heart to the sky, for even as the judgment is the fire of heaven, by Ruach HaKodesh thou will create fire,

25. And you will see the fire in it, and you will feel this fire burning in thy heart;

26. Therefore, in the house of YHVH, fire is brought by that angel of fire, that thou should know that YHVH doth exist.

27. Take now all that thou hath learned this day and ponder it, that on the morrow thou should teach it unto the world; even so, Amen.


---
chapter: Chapter 20

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/20

chapter-aka: The Torah and the Mitzvah of the Kohen Gadol and Kohanot Gadolah

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapter 20 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. Hear me speak, O Abraham, and thou, O Sarah! Thou hath been gifted with the fourth malau—

2. Abraham of assiah tzedeq and Sarah of assiah migdalah, which is one priesthood after the order of the Son of Man—

3. And with this thou hath been given the first of the four endowments of the Torah of Olamot.

4. Remember these words, O Abraham, and thou too, O Sarah! For now, at last, I shall share unto thee, each one of these, the words of Raphael unto Adam and Eve,

5. ¶ And after that they did receive their fourth endowment;

6. And Raphael did speak again unto Adam and unto Eve, and he did say unto them (and thus do I say unto you):

7. ¶ The Voice teaches also that Nephesh has three branches corresponding to the three names of YHVH, and that the soul is placed above the temple.

8. The covering of the throne of glory is even as a cherub in flight; therefore, let thy soul be lifted up like a cherub:

9. And know too that Ha’Elohim doth appear as the Son of Man, and even the rushing waters do sing His praises unto YHVH.

10. And the song is this: YHVH doth reign, for ever and ever!

11. Therefore, according to the written truth, honor belongs to mankind.

12. Yea, YHVH, even the Lord of Hosts, doth give the truth of Alohykm and of Ha’Elohim to the children of Elohim; therefore, give the truth to all mankind.

13. ¶ Close thine eyes! Look not at the carvings! For therein lies that daughter of Lilith, and she is tormented by the virgins and the mothers;

14. Therefore, the people will multiply and shall spread the Torah, but they will not know the Torah: judge them not in harshness, for they know not that which they do.

15. ¶ And what of those that shall worship dumb idols made by the hands of men?

16. Do not laugh, for even as the finger of YHVH did create you, O man, so too did the hands of man create the images cut from wood and stone;

17. Yet see that YHVH doth carve mankind out of the dust and breathe life into them!

18. But when a man doth put his finger into the mud and breathe his breath upon it, life doth not come; the great name of YHVH hath His holy symbols.

19. And the sign is this: man cannot bring life, but when the son of Adam doth marry the daughter of Eve, and the son of Eve doth marry the daughter of Adam, then life shall come in the new breath.

20. And so it is that Adam doth seek a helpmate, and Eve doth take him in and make him her own; and this that truth might be found within.

21. ¶ Gather thou up twelve righteous and pray together as one in the name of YHVH;

22. Do this in each of the three stages and continue on and share one with another as ye do forth in the name of YHVH.

23. Truth is written in the names of Alohykm; use the power of the names by their seals while they live;

24. Yea, the seals are drawn both above and below, for the names do dwell in the in that temple residing in the fourth heaven.

25. The heavens and the earth must be one, for both are the creation and exist by the Word of YHVH.

26. ¶ And this holy tabernacle (or intelligence) hath four coverings: the first covering was the spirit; the second covering is the skin, the third covering Nephesh; and the fourth shall be a white skin, resembling the purity of YHVH.

27. They who do hear will understand, and they will be blessed with wisdom in the name YHVH; so mote it be, Amen.


---
chapter: Chapter 21

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/21

chapter-aka: The Wisdom of Raphael who is Raziel

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapters 22-24:11 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. And I, Melchizedek, give unto thee my wisdom, that you should know:

2. Each of the four malau (endowments) is in its part, four malau: two of the heavens and two of the earth.

3. This first that thou hast received is that of the spring that shall lead thee into the summer, and it is for planting;

4. The second is of the summer and it is for growth, and the third in the autumn and is for the harvest;

5. The fourth is for the winter, and if thou art prepared, thou shalt live to see the spring, and if thou are not prepared, then thou shall die and be born again in that spring.

6. Praise YHVH for His mighty hand, yea, praise Alohykm, even as Adam and Eve did walked earth with Ha’Elohim.

7. In the first of the Olamot, thou doth come out as a fire, burning brightly thought the night,

8. To take that light of the creator and be a beacon for those lost to the mists of darkness.

9. If thou should look to thine own wisdom, thou shalt fall as men, but if thou should harken unto the wisdom of Alohykm, thou shall live in the mercy of YHVH.

10. ¶ Remember the words of Raphael, hear me and I shall teach thee what Adam and Eve did hear from Raziel in their old age:

11. In the world below the heavens, below that veil of light, the offering of ascension is cast upon the altar, opening the door of generosity and humility through which all must pass.

12. As the Kohen Gadolim and the Kohen Gadolot, ye shall teach with commitment and humility.

13. Yea, this sacrifice purifies all, submitting to the fires of judgment, and dries up sins in that fire;

14. Therefore, it is similar to the washing in mercy, the resurrection of the dead.

15. The judgment of YHVH is as dry as a fire, strong in heat, a true passion without anger or rage;

16. Therefore, when thou doth look out upon the sky and read it, taking in the anger of YHVH,

17. Remember that Alohykm wants us to give unto others, even as YHVH doth give, and in such a way that it is that He, YHVH, be glorified.

18. ¶ Clean out thy dust and ashes as thou travail through the ten trials, you presented the ashes unto YHVH in prayer.

19. YHVH, the Creator of heaven and earth, reigns, therefore wear thy crown as His child.

20. YHVH shall create for thee a beautiful throne and thou shalt be in His glory in the house of the age to come.

21. ¶ And the Alohykm hath given thee almah (a virgin), which is the true joy of thy worship; therefore, know that the perfection of YHVH is not lost to mankind;

22. Yea, stand up according to the Voice, take heed unto El Elyon, and thou will be washed clean.

23. Yea, thou art made in perfection, but not by thy own power, for none cleans thee (almah) but YHVH;

24. Therefore, when the wicked seeds of mankind are planted within thy heart, cast them to the side and plant in their place the seeds of YHVH to perfection.

25. And let this be thy faith: Love thy enemies, gift of thy treasure unto those who curse thee, do good to all they who hate thee, and pray earnestly for those who seek to take thy goods or thy life;

26. Do this that the world might know that thou be the child of YHVH, the Creator, even El Elyon who reigneth over the heavens.

27. And as the Kohen Gadolim and the Kohen Gadolot, ye shall preach and teach by the Breath of YHVH unto mankind.

28. ¶ Yea, and know this: That perfection hath two paths; justice to the left and mercy to the right;

29. Even as the man doth give, and the woman shall receive that which he doth offer in righteousness, and in this shall thou live in balance.

30. YHVH doth see Adam as they are, with hands raised toward the skys; yet the Voice seeks to live in the heart.

31. When Adam doth receive the Voice as a seed to pierce the heart, Adam is that temple of the Breath (Ruach HaKodesh),

32. For even as Adam doth seek that Elohim that did gift him life, so too doth YHVH seek Adam, for mankind is His creation.

33. ¶ Every woman (Eve) shall be given the ten trials, after that Nephesh is born within, and the new name is written upon earth and in the heavens,

34. Hear with thine ears when the angel of YHVH doth speak, saying: The glory of the world is as great as its depth. East, West, North, South.

35. ¶ O, how wonderous is the light of YHVH! The light that doth destroy the darkness, breaking through that veil!

36. And this is the name of our Elohim: ONE (UNITY); for as it is above, so it is below, on earth, as in the heaven, and as below, so above.

37. The seal was given by YHVH even before the creation unto those who were given their authority, the teachers, and the priests and priestesses, and the blessed elders, and the high priests and the high priestesses:

38. And through constant change in degrees, mankind is renewed by YHVH in teshuvah to returns to that highest of the heavens.

39. ¶ The opening is here upon the earth; pass through the gates to know the mystery of being and return to the Alohykm that sent thee fourth.

40. And the gate has a key, and the key is the power of YHVH; and here is that key:

41. Aviad (the Father) is to the East; listen and heed His voice and revelation shall pour out unto thee;

42. And YHVH is to the West placing the sealing power into the hands of mankind, as YHVH shall give unto thee from time to time;

43. And Asyma (the Mother) is to the North in wisdom rest and renewal is with thee.

44. The breath, Ruach HaKodesh is to the South, from whence comes the fire of purification.

45. ¶ The light of all things appears as a veil above the creation, and below in the abyss darkness covers all that is created:

46. YHVH is in all and is all; therefore bow down to all; yea, arise and give thanks in thy heart when thou worship YHVH.

47. ¶ Here be glory to YHVH! Offer the offering of ascension in love, lift thyself up in honor to Elohim Shaddai.

48. Behold, contempt doth not serve YHVH; the fat and blood is to be burnt up and discarded as a peace offering,

49. The rest is to be given as food to any in need of substance in the name of YHVH that peace might be offered unto the world.

50. ¶ Serve and strengthen thy body with love and prayer, bringing the light of the Torah unto mankind;

51. For from the Torah of YHVH comes honor and wisdom; yea, honoring and serving Alohykm is the foundation of that house;

52. Therefore, do not deprive thyself of the food from that offering, great love comes from prayer and prayer comes from thy honor unto YHVH.

53. ¶ I share with thee a blessing of love and have shared with thee the mysteries of the holy priesthood after the order of the Son of Man all throughout thy life.

54. As the Kohen and Kohanot thou art one and ye art a holy people, wisely in thy obey the mitzvoth of YHVH, and in praise unto YHVH forever.

55. ¶ And now, I do say unto thee: This is the wisdom of YHVH Elohim, teach thy people to teach the world in the name of YHVH;

56. Fight against pride and sin not with hate in thy heart, but in praise unto YHVH in prayer;

57. Yea, without His portion given unto thee, thy enemies will destroy this land and overtake all its inhabitants.

58. ¶ YHVH, the Elohim, King of kings of kings, sees in all directions; East to West, North to South, from the heavens above unto the abyss beneath, into thy heart, and in every way;

59. See now that you are not alone, because YHVH is everywhere: He sees good and bad within; therefore glorify YHVH in His righteousness,

60. Yea, bring the people of Alohykm together in YHVH, that they will not be separated; do this that they should do the work of the heavens; so mote it be.


---
chapter: Chapter 22

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/22

chapter-aka: The Knowledge of Raphael who is Raziel

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapters 24:12-40 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. Behold, every path is blessed by Alohykm; therefore, strengthen thy heart to please YHVH.

2. The heart is eternal because it is thy inheritance; they who follow the path will understand that all good things come from Allah.

3. ¶ Evil will come from that devil, the adversary who tempted you in the garden; that Satan is the enemy of truth;

4. Thou shalt strive to always preach and fight that Satan because the devil will always encourage you and tempt you to sin and do evil.

5. ¶ Truth comes from YHVH; Ruach HaKodesh, the Voice, shall always call and inspire mankind for good;

6. Therefore, thou must know that anything that teaches people to honor YHVH, to do good, to love Elohim and to serve El Elyon, is from Alohykm who sent you.

7. ¶ Take the time to thank El Elyon! YHVH commanded mankind to unite and set out on the path each day, never ceasing.

8. The sinner, the thief, or the adulterer, they who are blind to the light of YHVH, the wisdom of YHVH,

9. These are they who know not how to approach the Presence of Elohim in any of the dwellings of His wisdom.

10. ¶ Remember, O man: The wisdom of YHVH who created the Torah, the reward is love; yea, worship YHVH a little and you will worship Him often.

11. Mankind should never ponder to abandon the will of YHVH, but stand before the Judge of the world, for thy tongue will be tried.

12. When mankind sees clearly, he knows that Satan rules over sorcerers and necromancers, these are the deceivers who only know the wisdom of this world;

13. Because they practice that priestcraft—the work of Satan, or works based on knowledge of Lilith and the signs of her leviathan;

14. Therefore, it is clear for those who serve Satan, that they cannot be trusted, for they are liars and deceivers, that they appear to know everything yet know nothing of YHVH,

15. Go not blind to thyself therefore with evil spells, lest you be condemned because of those who deny YHVH, the Creator.

16. ¶ YHVH did give life to the heart of mankind; therefore, open thy heart to all and respect all that doth live in the creation.

17. Know thou how to pray to the Lord of Judges, for YHVH is Lord above all; yea, say these words to end the dreams that are this work, to awaken in truth.

18. The impure do not rise to know YHVH, that Elohim who did create them, that they might know when to be ashamed in guilt, and say:

19. I have sinned, lied, spoken, or written, lest I should put myself before thy eyes.

20. ¶ Let YHVH clean thy sorrow in His mercy by meditating on the goodness of YHVH each time thou doth pray, by searching thy heart as thou doth bow down in prayer;

21. Yea, seek the perfection of YHVH, keep His mitzvoth and respect all life here in the creation.

22. Do not measure thy righteousness by thy deeds, neither by that which thou should do nor by what thou didst before;

23. To do this is to be judged by every word thou shalt write and every act of grace thou might perform.

24. ¶ Know that thy honor unto YHVH doth make thee whole; thy prayer is joy in the love of YHVH is what maketh thee whole;

25. Yea, rejoice in thy prayers unto YHVH; do this and thou art loved and protected.

26. Behold, it is from that source of light, even YHVH who did give unto thee His Torah that the deepest of knowledge, all the words and deeds of all the creation, that is the mercy of the Creator; even so, Amen.

27. ¶ And what is this light that Raphael that is Raziel doth speak of? It is the fire that burneth through the day and night, that fire that can never be quenched by any veil of darkness.

28. It is that very light that burns by the wisdom of YHVH into the hearts of men and women of His creation.

29. O Abraham! O Sarah! Harken and listen, for here is wisdom: All things are given a name and names,

30. And to all things is form given in every age, every day, every hour, and every minute of the eternal creation;

31. Only intelligence is invisible, for it is an eternal force that has always lived, never to be born, and never to taste death.

32. The temples in which thou doth dwelleth must be formed eternal; therefore thy form that is an age be thy spirit given thee for it hath a beginning with no end’

33. And thy form now, even this flesh, it shall be with thee for but a day then night shall come and it shall pass;

34. But when thy soul (Nephesh) is born, that age and that day shall be on in that very hour,

35. Yea, thou shalt be made whole in thy restitution unto YHVH in that very minute, yet night shall yet come unto thee of the flesh:

36. ¶ But fear not, O Abraham, nor thee Sarah, for thou art one flesh; yea, thou art one in YHVH;

37. Therefore, in the resurrection thou shall be made whole again, never to die again,

38. Always to be of one mind and one heart, invisible and visible, and infinite light of radiance bearing eternal testimony to the truth of YHVH.

39. ¶ Mankind is even as a star that has fallen, bound to this creation that they should feed on the struggle of this world;

40. But that star is a fire that burns by the breath of YHVH into the darkness when thou should take upon thyself new life as thou art a new creation of YHVH.

41. And out of that struggle shall the tree grow and blossom up out of thy heart, and the fruit of that tree, it does taste sweeter than honey!

42. Therefore, by the Torah doth life exist, and by YHVH that Torah; therefore seek thou not anything of this creation that is not that Torah;

43. That Torah hath been given in every age that mankind should know that Alohykm that did create them;

44. Therefore, awaken, O Abraham! Awaken, O Sarah! and eat of that tree, for thou art free to eat of its wisdom as thou art no longer Adam, nor art thou Eve that it should be forbidden thee;

45. See, therefore, that which was once hidden, and it shall be given thee, listen to that Voice and be thou wise in the things of YHVH.


---
chapter: Chapter 23

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/23

chapter-aka: The Eight Tasks

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapters 25-26 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. Know thou Abraham, and thou Sarah, that these new names, given thee of YHVH, are the names of thy soul;

2. These are the names hidden in mysteries for mankind, in the temple of YHVH, which is thy heart.

3. Therefore, reach to the heavens, for I have set thee apart as the Kohen Gadol and Kohanot Gadolah of this generation;

4. Therefore speak for me, Melchizedek, the great Kohen Gadol of YHVH, El Elyon, in this age;

5. And even as I have been called and set apart, thou too hath been called and set apart; and thou art one in the name of YHVH.

6. ¶ Behold eight tasks shall I give unto thee, and these are even the same tasks that Raphael did give unto our fathers, Adam and Eve, to teach thy people to do, and each in their proper order:

7. First, begin thy rituals in prayer.

8. Second, rehearse unto all the proclamations of the Word of El Elyon.

9. Third, open thy heart to hear and to feel that thou might learn and be blessed.

10. Fourth, place oils and flowers pleasing to the nose upon thy altar to welcome YHVH into thy midst.

11. Fifth, keep thy body clean that thy hands might give in righteousness.

12. Sixth, consecrate upon the altar in supplication before Alohykm.

13. Seventh, renew thy covenants that the body, mind, and spirit might be renewed therein.

14. Eight, thy feet walk into the tabernacle, yea the house of study and even the house of prayer.

15. And I say unto thee: Complete these that thou mayest return into the world of mankind in the perfection of YHVH.

16. ¶ Behold, to honor YHVH is the foundation, for it is giving up thy desire of self (egoism);

17. Do not praise YHVH for the sake of this world or in pretending to earn eternal glory, no; grace has saved thee, and thy work shall be as a sign unto this world.

18. When the Torah is in thy hands, read it that it should be in thy heart, and once the Torah is in thy heart it shall change thy actions;

19. And this because by thy actions shall be pour out light of the mercy of YHVH,

20. And thy heart shall be revealed and the light of YHVH shall be given unto others that their hearts might be changed also.

21. ¶ Was this knowledge hidden in the womb because Alohykm was afraid to reveal these secrets?

22. I shall tell thee truthfully that thou not be lead into temptation; for every work alone is death, otherwise how can mankind find truth?

23. Study also the letters that they should proclaim the Torah unto you, and teach your children also, that they may gain knowledge when they are young.

24. The Torah shall be written in the heart, for it is filled with all thy mitzvoth; to overcome the body, conquer thy heart (mind) and body; know that YHVH is.

25. ¶ Yea, give YHVH all glory, and I say unto thee again: Go now and serve YHVH with love,

26. Believe with love, and teach with love, and you will be called the children of Alohykm; so mote it be!

27. ¶ Keep thy mitzvoth in secret, walking with Ha’Elohim, and in keeping thy mitzvoth, do thus not in pride, but in secret—

28. Alohykm sees what thou doeth in thy hidden chambers that thou should be rewarded;

29. Therefore, pray alone, and when you pray, put on the garments of righteousness before Alohykm.

30. ¶ Behold, when mankind shall ask thee: What of justice? For thou art righteous according to the Torah of YHVH; keep the love of YHVH in thy heart, showing honor to YHVH;

31. Rejoice before Elohim, speak in honesty and wisdom; tremble in the Presence of Elohim, giving thy heart only to YHVH.

32. Do not present the truth to mankind only to save thy face before them, thou hast taken the oath; therefore, speak truth boldly for the sake of YHVH, thy Elohim.

33. ¶ Know too that everything created by human hands will disappear, all idols are in vain;

34. Therefore, let all thy deeds be of the heavens and not of the earth, that thou should obtain light from YHVH.

35. Remember that the secret is to honor YHVH Alohykm; everything was created to be known, understood, and to grant wisdom unto mankind:

36. Offer no evidence for truth, for truth is its own witness.

37. ¶ Now, I say unto thee: Take these words and write these things in a book, reveal the secrets, and reveal the power of the Son of Man that did create the universe;

38. Mankind doth love to learn secrets, and the greatest of secrets if thus: Glorify YHVH and let Ruach HaKodesh dwell in thy temple.

39. Come now and write these truths from the above on thy door that thou should know the oneness of YHVH.

40. Keep the glory of YHVH in thy heart; yea, worship Him alone for He is one and not two: Blessed be YHVH Elohim—

41. ¶ YHVH is the first and the last, YHVH is the Creator of the earth, there is no Elohim before nor after Him;

42. His is the first covenant, yea, the first word written even before the creation of the world.

43. YHVH doth rise first, and He speaks with a loud voice, for when the morning star fell at the end of his glory, seeking to be exalted above El Elyon, he did see that nothing could stand against Him:

44. YHVH alone is the beginning and the end; the Great Creator of the universe, even that which is beyond this world, and there is no end to His power.

45. ¶ Know that in the temple, Alohykm wrote the creation of all things; it is written in the Holy of Holies in the first heaven.

46. Through the gate, between at veil of darkness and that veil of light, humanity must choose their path:

47. To descends into the chaos of the abyss, serving in chaos, or to rise and climb up and bring that light of YHVH to cleans this, the earth.

48. YHVH Elohim did give unto mankind two temples, that is, Ruach HaKodesh dwells in mankind and mankind doth rejoice to dwell in the house of Alohykm, the sanctuary of YHVH.

49. Remember too that destruction is creation; therefore, there shall be those who did live in that first kingdom only to perish in the second kingdom.

50. ¶ Everything created by YHVH was created in pairs: two worlds, heaven and earth, all enter the Garden of Eden; their paths are lit by the sun and the moon;

51. Therefore, humanity, although glorified by the Son of Man, will perish, be reborn, and fall, otherwise He alone would be left in the kingdom; so mote it be, Amen.

52. ¶ And now do I say unto thee, Abraham and unto thee, Sarah: Reach up unto the heavens eternally,

53. For thou art of that High Priesthood after the order of the Son of Man, and pull yonder heavens down here, unto this, the earth;

54. Cast thy thoughts always upward, unto that light of YHVH, which is life eternal.

55. Thou hast been given the keys, and the light that thou should see that path;

56. Therefore, seek thee the wisdom of Shekinah, turn thy thoughts unto thy heart that thy heart should be not closed unto that light.

57. Understand the symbols and the numbers that thy path should be clear, that thou should break past the veil of light that lieth between the earth and the heavens.

58. Pour that flame of the sun that the darkness should be shattered and live this day!


---
chapter: Chapter 24

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/24

chapter-aka: The Seven Days

chapter-sum: (Compare to Chapters 27 of the Book of Remembrance)

1. And now, I say unto thee, Abraham, and unto thee, Sarah: Take heed! Every Adam and every Eve doth have seven parts, even as the seven days of thy creation;

2. These days are the path that lead all of mankind unto that light of YHVH and the Alohykm by way of Ruach HaKodesh;

3. Therefore, take heed and listen that thou might live forever, a child of Alohykm thou art and shall be.

4. Even as a child, looking up at the night sky, did I wonder, sinking deeply into the mysteries of El Elyon, dreaming in my heart.

5. And as my heart did grow, I learned to walk in that pathway of the stars, for that night sky is but a reflection of the things of this earth;

6. Yea, and it is even as such: as above, so below, as below so above, for that which is above was made first in its creation; therefore, is like to that which is below:

7. But the things of this world, they have been corrupted, and though they do mirror and that which is above,

8. It is by the grace of YHVH that that which is below shall be even as that which is above.

9. ¶ And thus do we have the seasons, that mankind should learn the night sky, and all seasons, and each of the months, and of the Sabbaths, they are of YHVH and all but a reflection of that which is above;

10. Therefore, all that I should teach you, and all that thou should make know unto thy children, and they unto their children’s children, are the rituals celestial.

11. And the year doth begin in the spring, and so too doth these first four malau that I have given unto thee.

12. Behold, the washing and anointing are given that thou should be clean after thou has been ordained, that thy exodus from death and sin, even that death should pass over thee.

13. And this should be observed on the first new moon of the spring, and the first full moon observed also, as this is thy first month in teshuvah.

14. And when it shall be that the year hath passed, thou shall look and see; if thou has done wisely, it shall be observed that growth in degrees given thee of YHVH.

15. ¶ And so it was that Raphael did come to teach Adam and Eve that they might teach their seed of the degrees in the heavens, saying:

16. The entire world, yea, even the entire universe, was created and filled by the word of YHVH, and this creation became one within the seventh heaven.

17. Behold, YHVH is El Elyon, even Lord (Adoni) God (Elohim) over everything;

18. Therefore, YHVH is the ten Sefirot, from below the earth to beyond the heavens, and from the East to the West, and the North to the South, forever and ever.

19. ¶ The light of YHVH illuminates the thirty-two paths that reside between the Sefirot, starting with Elohim;

20. Walk these paths until you see the creation through the eyes of that Creator and thou shalt discover the most sacred names of Alohykm.

21. Before the beginning was YHVH, El Elyon, He who created Ha’Elohim, giving unto Himself the name YHVH.

22. And YHVH is One, that He should make all the worlds, high, middle and low, and fulfill all according to the Torah (instruction) of the Father (Aviad);

23. Without the will of Aviad, no stones nor shapes were formed, without Asyma there was no life given them.

24. Bless YHVH! Even as Alohykm, He doth live in the seventh heaven and rules over everything.

25. ¶ Think of YHVH in eternal ages; through these degress, at the beginning of the world, mankind was given to see glory and majesty.

26. ¶ The Voice speaketh unto the heart, saying: Men do not think of the glory of heaven;

27. Even as Aviad and Shekianh instructed and as YHVH decreed, Ha’Elohim did create this world with the knowledge of Alohykm in reverence;

28. Therefore, serve Yah and YHVH with all thy heart, and do good for the creation all thy life.

29. When YHVH did breathe life into mankind, Yah did say: All things are the breath of Ruach HaKodesh; and this is the first degree.

30. ¶ From the Word comes the breath, from the mouth; therefore, the soul does not find peace from pain.

31. ¶ These are the words of that same fire and water; mankind is to pressed their lips to the words that the noise of it should be strong!

32. And when YHVH did speak, sparks flew from the breath even as fire shooting from the rocks:

33. Wherefore, when thou shall speak in faith, the power of that fire cometh from out of thy mouths to ignite the flame of hope.

34. Is not the power of the Word like fire? This is the power of the Voice the doth come from the very breath of Elohim (Ruach HaKodesh).

35. And when it shall come to pass that the people shall rise from the grave and are born again in YHVH, it shall be even as the steam rising from the water (baptism?).

36. Even as the heat of the fire burns the old and creates the new life in every dwelling, in Nephi{a} is the soul born in water and fire, and mankind is born again in YHVH.
[a] This term, Nephi shares the same root as “nephesh,” Hebrew for “soul,” and is used to describe a cleansing perhaps by burning something to purity it in a flammable liquid, this seems to be an invitation to baptism; see 2 Maccabees 1:32-36

37. ¶ This is the word of YHVH: A fire that eats fire.

38. The breath of life is the glory of YHVH, who made the Word flesh.

39. Everything that is done is done through the Word of YHVH and is therefore eternally blessed.

40. They who believe in truth, even after the light of YHVH is extinguished from mankind, they will be healed:

41. The world will be healed, the earth will be filled, and creation will be completed on the day following the Sabbath of YHVH.

42. ¶ Blessed is YHVH Elohim to create all the Torah and the mitzvoth given unto mankind; Elohim Shaddai: Eternal is His glory and power; so mote it be; Amen.

43. ¶ Behold, Abraham, and thou too, Sarah, that this cleansing (Nephi) is that seven days of creation; therefore, remember thy rest.


---
chapter: Chapter 25

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/25

chapter-aka: Taught at the Veil

1. Behold, even as I have taught it unto my people, I shall teach it unto you;

2. For they all, my people, did struggle upwards unto the heavens, not to leave this earth but that the will of Alohykm should be done here upon the earth:

3. And for this I and they have been blessed, and we prepare, even now, to leave this plane, for the veil of light hath been rent before us, and we have been called home;

4. Therefore, our souls do travel freely into that intimate light, beyond knowledge, beyond the idolatrous whims of mankind;

5. For we have found that Torah which I do teach thee now, and wrapped ourselves in that Shekinah, resting in the love of YHVH.

6. ¶ And now I do invite thee to teach all that I have given thee and all that I shall give thee in YHVH, unto thy children, that they too should know to rend that veil;

7. And by these rituals do I teach thee, for this is how I too was taught, in the temple of El Eyon;

8. Therefore it is how I have taught my wives, and how we have taught our people; therefore, it is how thou shall be taught, and how thou shall teach it unto thy seed until that last generation.

. //The rest of this chapter and remaining chapters are to be kept from the world until the temple of YHVH is built for all people, that the rituals and teachings may be shared within.//


---
chapter:  ...

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/melchizedek/more

. //The rest of chapter 25 and remaining chapters are to be kept from the world until the temple of YHVH is built for all people, that the rituals and teachings may be shared within.//
