One

1. YHVH is our Elohim,
YHVH has dominion over the whole of creation;
YHVH is One,
YHVH is Unity.

2. By YHVH was the world created;
the creation of YHVH is One,
by the providence of YHVH is the creation governed.

3. Lift up your eyes on high and behold!
Who is it that has created all things?
Lift up your eyes on high and see!

4. By the pathakh azeen will you recognize Ha’Elohim;
who is the Creator?
Even as Moses was told:
I AM that I AM.

5. And who is YHVH?
Who is YHVH that should be given dominion over the heavens above?
For do not all things exist by the very will of YHVH?

6. YHVH is the visible and the invisible which you seek;
therefore, that which is beyond YHVH is vanity,
for there is nothing beyond YHVH:
YHVH is One.

7. To seek after one thing is to seek after all things;
all is One in YHVH,
in YHVH are all things One;
YHVH is the beginning,
YHVH is the End.

8. What shall I liken unto YHVH?
What shall I testify unto you concerning YHVH?
From the beginning of creation,
all things have testified of YHVH.

9. And YHVH has crowned you, O Israel, with crowns of holiness;
YHVH has set you apart, O Israel, with His Torah
that you should ascend on high,
a holy people unto YHVH.

10. And so YHVH does say to you:
My people must first be brought low;
then shall I descend
and enter into your walls below.

11. Let this console you and comfort you, O Israel:
YHVH shall descend
and become like you in all things;

12. YHVH shall descend below all things
and shall overcome all things
and shall rise above all things.

13. YHVH shall have pity for Israel,
[for] she shall overflow in her afflictions;

14. And though your afflictions shall be like that of the sea,
there shall be remedy and healing for you, O Israel!

15. And when you shall ask: Who shall heal me?
And when you shall ask: Who shall strengthen me?
YHVH, even Elohim Shaddai, shall heal and strengthen you.

16. O seed of Jacob!
It is YHVH that stands between you and death!
It is YHVH that watches over you and protects you!

17. If you will but seek after this one thing,
you will seek after all things:

18. In YHVH are all things One,
all is One in YHVH;
YHVH is the End,
even so, YHVH is the Beginning.

19. That which you seek is the visible and the invisible,
for such is YHVH;
therefore, there is nothing beyond YHVH but that which is in vain,
for YHVH is One.

20. All things exist by the very will of YHVH;
therefore, unto YHVH is given dominion over the heavens above.

21. And by the providence of YHVH is the creation governed,
for by YHVH was the world created;
the creation of YHVH is One.

22. YHVH is our Elohim,
YHVH has dominion over the whole of creation;
YHVH is One,
YHVH is Unity.

23. A profound mystery shall be revealed to you today;
all the knowledge and all the wisdom of this world is even as this:
The children of the world know nothing,
even unto this day.

24. Listen therefore to the decree of Neum,
for the cries of the Oracle are the decree of YHVH;
listen and stand ready,
all those that hear these words!



Two

1. Behold, I am Neum, the Oracle,
reader of the stars—
I am she who pours out the libations for YHVH;

2. I am she who still dances in prophecy
when the daughters do sing,
and the young men do play their harps
and beat their drums.

3. You know me, O Judah;
yea, you know that I do prophesy truly;
for has not all that I have been told to say among you been true?

4. The remnant of the daughters of Miriam do mock to shame me,
for the sons of Aaron have silenced their voices,
but YHVH shall be heard!

5. If the mouths of the daughters of Miriam be silenced,
then the mouths of the other daughters of Israel shall be opened:

6. For I am not of the seed of Levi,
but am a daughter of Joseph and of Manasseh;

7. Yet did the Presence of YHVH come to me,
calling me Neum, the oracle of Ha’Elohim.

8. Behold, when your daughters were sick with child,
did I not pour out libations
for deliverance of healing and restoration?

9. When your young men did prepare for war,
did I not read the stars for them
to guide them home to safety?

10. When your herds did wander off a far way,
did I not give unto you the words of the Voice
that you did retrieve them?

11. Wherefore, I say unto you this day:
Listen to the Oracle of YHVH,
give ear that you might hear,

12. That your children
and your children’s children
might stave off death at the last day.

13. I shall speak unto you freely;
yea, I shall give unto you the word of YHVH,
that you shall have these sayings among you:

14. And this that you shall stand up,
and give heed, O Judah!
That all those who would understand
these proverbs and these intrigues,

15. And all those who would cut through
to dig out the knowledge,
and all those who would hold fast
to these mysteries and these wonders,

16. That by the strength of El Elyon
you might break the chains of death and hell,
seeing past all those who do walk in naivety.

17. And even those who are devious
in their dealings with their fellows,

18. Yea and the stiff necked,
the hard-headed and hard-hearted,
those intertwined with the customs of fools;

19. Even these shall see at the end,
that would deny YHVH in the flesh,
even these shall see and shall know
that YHVH is Lord and King
over all.

20. And the inheritance of the wise
shall be salvation from death
by the power of YHVH,
for by Him shall death be conquered,
and the graves opened.

21. Yea, and there will be no more death,
nor mourning,
nor crying,
nor pain;
for the old things shall have passed away.

22. Even as in death there is grief,
and in the grave there is sorrow,
YHVH shall show His compassion,

23. So great is His unfailing love for His Israel
that YHVH shall bind up her wounds.

24. And when the time does come,
the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of Man,
and those who hearken unto the Voice shall live.

25. And even as YHVH, in His infinite mercy,
shall redeem the life of His Israel from the grave,
surely He will take Israel into Himself;

26. For this One shall pay our ransom,
for He is our Elohim forever and ever:

27. And so it is that YHVH will be our guide
even unto death,
that He swallow up death forever,
having redeemed us
and taken away our destruction.

28. And now I would ask you:
What good is the mystery to you,
all they who search for the beginnings of knowledge?

29. Why is the heart honored,
for it is that which governs the body of man?

30. Does the heart hear when the Voice speaks unto the heart,
when the Oracle tells the parable?

31. Why is the heart precious to the soul
when it is the birth of the soul
that reveals the true heart of mankind?

32. Why is a prince set apart
to look down upon his brother as a ruler?
Is it not YHVH that gives the king his reign?

33. And the prince is born without strength,
yet he dominates his brothers with a whip that cost him nothing.

34. How are the tzaddikimare like unto the stars?
Even as the stars do shine with a fierceness,
they hold true in their glory.

35. Shining in their glory,
they strive not to contend with one another as mankind does,
but find peace in the light of one another,
and contentment as the others shine even brighter than they.

36. And there is one that shines brighter than them all,
and none are envious of the glory of that star;

37. Therefore, might Judah be holy,
even as YHVH, our Elohim, is Holy;

38. Might Judah be righteous
that there will be peace in Israel,
even as there is peace in the Heavens.

39. Who could say they are as the stars I read in the night sky?
Not a soul in Judah, 
no.

40. For El Elyon hath given the seed of Jacob her strength
that her fate shall not be tied to the stars
like all the other nations of His creation.

41. Yet who among you seeks the presence 
of Light and Understanding
that is given of Ha’Elohim?

42. The path of remembrance without foundation
is without the depth of understanding.

43. Those taught by the angels of El Elyon,
those who sing praises
that they would be even as Ha’Elohim—

44. Unto these are given the fruit
unto the knowing of good and evil.

45. I thank you, O YHVH,
for your eyes are awake
and they do watch over my soul!

46. You have rescued me from the passion of idle talkers,
from the company of those who would seek
the pleasant words of flattery
that lead souls away.

47. Israel to the North, you hath let slip away,
but they are not hidden from you!

48. Save therefore the soul of the poor
who they planned to destroy
by spilling the blood of your servant.

49. I walked this walk for you,
YHVH, my Elohim,
but they did not know this.

50. They laughed at me,
sought to shame me
with lies from their mouths!

51. But you didst support the soul
of the poor and the weak,
you did save me from their harsh arms,

52. You redeemed me amid their taunts;
from the wicked I do not fear destruction.

53. Surely even the maggot can praise you, YHVH,
and the worm remembers your love and kindness;

54. Yet they who have tasted of death but returned
have forgotten you,
and your people have stumbled,
having forgotten to sing your praises.

55. Your kindness has been revealed unto them,
and your righteousness has enlightened them,
Elohim Shaddai.

56. For in your hands are the souls of every living thing;
you have given the breath of life unto all flesh.

57. Deal with us, O YHVH, according to your goodness,
according to your great mercy,
and according to your many righteous deeds.

58. YHVH has listened to the voices of those who love His name,
and He has not deprived them of His love
nor of His kindness;

59. Yet His mighty arm shall be swift in dealing with Judah,
should she not remember her place,
and return to her covenant!



Three

1. O those of flesh who are of yourselves nothing:
Why do you so quickly exalt yourselves,
living in the flesh
and having no eye unto the glory of YHVH?

2. Do you not tremble at nor fear
Ha’Elohim who sees you from above?

3. El Elyon does know,
for YHVH sees all,
and His malakim are witnesses of all things.

4. The adversary does ask mankind:
Who is He who nourishes all?

5. Yet the Creator has planted His breath in all
and sent His sweet spirit
to guide all of the human race.

6. And by the Voice that spoke
unto our father, Abraham
and our mother, Sarah,
we do know that there is One
who is sovereign over Ha’Elohim;

7. Choice in His power,
with no beginning of days nor end of years,
YHVH is almighty and invisible,
all seeing being All Himself.

8. Blessed be YHVH,
who executes deeds of righteousness,
crowning His qaddishim with His love,
and His kindness, and His mercy.

9. My soul does cry out to praise Your Name,
to sing praises to El Elyon for your loving deeds,
to proclaim your faithfulness unto Israel and unto Judah!

10. And I say:
There is no end to my praise of you, YHVH.

11. I was near death for my sins,
and they did sell me off captive;
but you did save me, O YHVH,
according to your great mercy.

12. And I have loved Your Name, YHVH,
and in you have I found my strength
and my protection.

13. When I remember your might, my heart is brave
and upon your mercies I do lean;
you have forgiven my sins, O YHVH,
and purified me from my iniquities.

14. Instill in me a spirit of faith and knowledge,
for I am not ashamed,
though I stand in the midst of those that would see my destruction.

15. Do not allow the adversary nor the unclean spirits control over me;
let not pain and evil desires conquer my bones.

16. O YHVH, you are my praise!
I shall sing and praise you all day long;
my desire is ever that my brothers and my sisters of Judah
would rejoice with me.

17. Yet Elohim Shaddai is beheld by none in the flesh;
for what flesh can see visibly the true Elohim
that reigns from the heavens?

18. Worship YHVH who exists
from age to age,
giving to all mankind the light
through Israel, the seed of Jacob, and Isaac, and Abraham.

19. Let those that seek evil’s counsel
have their reward for forsaking El’Olam,

20. And even by giving your offerings unto foreign elohim,
these have made your sacrifices to the vanities of men
and made yourselves abominable before YHVH.

21. In insolence you have walked,
and I, Neum, the Oracle, have seen you;
in madness and folly you walked.

22. And I, the Oracle, have seen you
forsaking the straight path, you have turned aside
and are wandering through the thorns.

23. Stop your vanities of the flesh,
roaming in darkness,
leave the darkness of night
and take hold of the light that is YHVH!

24. Behold, our Elohim does speak unto us plainly,
His words shall not be for nothing!

25. Come, all you pursuers of the darkness and vial secrets!
Come here and behold a Light!

26.  Even more glorious than that of the sun,
YHVH shines even more brightly;
therefore, come forth!

27. Even as our mother, Eve, did seek to taste of the wisdom,
in your hearts she did plant the seed
that you might have the knowledge of this great light!

28. And I, the Oracle shall show you but a sliver of this light,
to tell you of the beginning unto the end,
even from the first generation of Adam,
even down to the very last day,

29. This I shall prophesy:
what has been,
what is now,
and what shall yet befall Israel and the world
through the seed of Adam and Eve.

30. The Voice did call upon me
to give you truth,
to know how this earth came into being,

31. And to make known unto you
that you shall not forget
the love of the Creator for this, His creation.

32. YHVH is El Elyon, the true King
who did bring all things into existence,
saying: Let it be;
and it was so.

33. For YHVH did establish all things,
even this earth you stand upon,
plucking it up and placing it.

34. And so it is that there is Elohim then
who does send the rain
and the winds,
and the storms,
and the earthquakes;

35. YHVH is the Lord of heaven,
King over the earth,
and one with all things.

36. Though the Elohim may have seed,
and these be immortal,
then we be the seed of YHVH;
therefore, by YHVH, death has no sting.

37. But the elohim of man are born and do die,
for having no power
they have nowhere to stand among Ha’Elohim.

38. And these gods of man,
they do fall before Ha’Elohim,
they are nothing before El’ Elyon;
YHVH did not create them,
they are but the shadows of man.

39. And Ha’Elohim is one,
and YHVH is the most exalted of Ha’Elohim,
for all things were made by Him;
and without him was not anything made which was made.

40. Yea, in YHVH is the reward,
and the reward is life,
and the life is the light of mankind.

41. Again, it is YHVH that brought into being
the countless multitudes that live in the deep,

42. And all the beasts
and the creeping things,
and all living things on the earth,
and all that spread their wings to inhabit the skies.

43. And it is YHVH that did breathe the breath of life into Adam,
and that did appoint Adam to care for this,
His creation.

44. And all things that can be understood,
and all things that cannot be understood,
these are the creation of YHVH.

45. And who of mortal flesh can know all these things?
I tell you: None knows them
save YHVH, who from the beginning has made them.

46. Dwelling in the heavens,
YHVH did place before Adam a much greater reward of good,

47. But for the evil and the unjust,
they do bring upon themselves war and pestilence
and their woes.

48. You, Adam, why do you exalt yourselves in vain
only to be rooted out by the Oracle of YHVH?

49. Be ashamed of making idols,
do not in your madness take away your children;
only evil elohim desire the bones of the fruits of your loins
in the smokes of their fires.

50. Even as the wife of treachery
that should sell her children unto foreign nations
as slaves have you become,
and how else should the good husband deal with such as this?



Four

1. O Israel! O Judah! O Zion!
You were even as Adam and as Eve,
the first people created to know YHVH
that mankind might see the salvation of YHVH,

2. Yet do you worship or fear Ha’Elohim,
to keep the Torah and the mitzvoth?
or do you bow down to dumb idols of wood and stone?

3. Do you stand to offer sacrifice to the living Elohim?
or do you sit before the doors of empty temples?

4. Consider the soothsayers, those teachers of sin:
Repeat aloud the parable,
declare now the mystery even as we speak;
then you will know if you have understood.

5. Know that YHVH sees you
and will reward you by your hearts,

6. Yet in your foolishness
the vision I have been given is sealed up from you,
and you have not understood
the eternal mysteries in their fullness;

7. You have not become wise
in your understanding of the Torah
and the ways of YHVH;
and why is this?

8. It is because you have not properly understood 
the origin of Wisdom;

9. But if you should unseal the vision that I have been given,
then you shall know,
then shall you understand!

10. To hear the parable, to see the mysteries
you must first give up all your wisdom,
for you are wise unto the things of this world,
and they are but the errands of fools!

11. Hear now what wisdom is:
Wisdom is to know the Creator,
to feel of His love,
and to love even as He loves;

12. What greater wisdom can there be than this?
And yet, who is Judah that her neighbors should fear her?

13. Judah is a wicked people
who takes pride in crafty ways;
scoundrels who belong to the liar;

14. Two-tongued, adulterous, idolatrous, evil-hearted,
taking only for themselves—

15. Will no one endowed with wealth and goods give any part to another?

16. Will any give of their substance
for the wants of the poor,
the hungry,
the naked,
the widows,
and the orphans?

17. And because of this, O Judah,
your daughters 
shall have secret lovers to keep her child from hunger,
and there is no husband to gain,
for your sons are drunken fools!

18. You think that this mighty kingdom rests in the power of this world,
forgetting of the immortal King
and therefore, you, Judah, will fall.

19. Judgement shall come unto you by the Eternal Savior,
even the Son of the Eternal Father
who created the heavens and the earth.

20. And YHVH sees where you stand, Judah;
a people that delights in the blood of the innocent,

21. Other men will reign over you,
will profit from your sorrows,
will have you seeking the Messiah in your ruin
that you will not know when He does appear.

22. And as a holy prince shall YHVH come into His creation,
to wield the scepter of His righteousness
over all the earth;
yet you will know Him not.

23. Three share their fates when He is crucified;
one will hang with no sin,
and one will be forgiven,
and one will reject truth.

24. And fire shall sweep over the isles of the seas,
and darkness shall cover the earth
for a moment, that the earth may weep for her Creator.

25. O wretched Adam!
when that time shall arrive, even the judgement of El’Olam,
the King of creation, shall be turned back in His mercy,
for so great is the Mercy of YHVH.

26. And YHVH will forgive His creation,
and the graves shall be opened
and shall yield up many of their dead;

27. And many qaddishim shall appear
and live, never to again taste death.

28. And shortly after, Judah will be scattered,
and her lands taken over
and she shall weep in her sorrows.

29. This I have seen,
if Judah does not return
and move away from her whoredoms.

30. And even now, Judah, you are like Sodom,
that wicked city that was destroyed for their greed:

31. Sodom did have 
even as much pride as they did lack charity
in those days;

32. For we do know that they had bread and wine in abundance,
and they still would not sustain the poor and the needy.

33. And so it was that she who supplied the poor man with bread
was cast into the fire and burned to ashes,

34. And no one took notice of her or pitied her,
and her cries ascended to the heavens,
and their sins were great before YHVH.

35. And so it was that the great cities were destroyed,
for they took no pity,
and they would not heed the words of Lot
when he did preach unto them.

36. And even like Sodom,
YHVH shall send out the righteous from among you, O Judah,
and give unto them new lands,
even lands upon the isles of the seas.

37. And now, Judah, you whose mothers and fathers were brought
by YHVH out of Egypt to this land:
When did you forget YHVH
and lay waste unto the stranger?

38. Wherefore, in a flash of gleaming fire is your destruction coming,

39. You shall be burned with torches
and carried out of the land
that YHVH has given to our fathers and our mothers.

40. Your long days have become shortened,
like your false and useless idols
feeling no shame.

41. But they who fear the true El’Olam shall inherit life,
and forever dwell in the fields of paradise,
feasting on the sweet bread
and looking on throughout the heavens.



Five

1. Hear me, O men of Israel:
the eternal King reigns!
And even as the sun looks down upon the lands,
so too does YHVH see you, Judah.

2. You call yourself His bride,
yet you are a mistress unto harlots,
and so then shall you come to naught,
falling to ruinous misfortunes;

3. But in your suffering,
you shall have fame in later generations,
and even into distant lands.

4. And those that shall escape this suffering
shall be sent to prosperous lands
that mankind had not known.

5. And with a purple robe,
mighty, just, and in His fierceness
shall the Son of Man come to your children’s children
after the quaking and the thunderstorms.

6. Those of an evil yoke shall be destroyed,
and after shall YHVH descend in His mercy.

7. But first
shall the soil of these distant lands be wet with blood and rain,
for your seed shall drink much murder.

8. And the righteous will rejoice,
for they shall be spared,
and YHVH having destroyed the king of death,

9. Yet so shall it be
that in the third and fourth generations
that man's offspring shall perish,

10. For they shall forget
all that their fathers and their mothers had seen
and born witness to.

11. And then
shall that adversary bring back the secret combinations of Cain,
and Sodom shall again rise against the house of Israel.

12. Reject the adversary, O Israel!
Reject the false traditions
carried in by the winds
from foreign lands!

13. Remember the words of Asyma,
standing in the temple in Jerusalem,
to Her Israel,
yea, even the divine mother who does say:

14. Enter into the Presence here
in this temple of holiness,
in worship of YHVH,
in respect for thyself,
and all that herein dwell.

15. For I need not thy devotion,
but thy sincerity of heart,
for it is truth that shall purify thee.

16. Yea, it is not thy understanding
that hath brought thee unto this house this day,
but thy thirst for knowledge and wisdom, and understanding.

17. Enter not by thy fears,
not by thy sins,
not by thy hatred,
but with a broken heart and a contrite spirit;

18. That through the mercy of YHVH
these impurities shall be cut out,
and this that you shall find strength.

19. You may look upon me as thy Mother,
and as thy Sister,
and as thy Wife,
and as thy Daughter,

20. But look not upon me as one to look down upon
or that should look down upon thee.

21. Yea, I am the very Presence of Elohim;
the devotion you have for me,
is it greater than that which you have for the Breath
that is within you?

22. Behold, if you should be offended of these,
you do offend Unity,
who is YHVH.

23. If you should be One
and stand in the Presence,
it is understanding that you shall take with you.

24. Wherefore, I say unto you:
Enter this house this day with respect
for all those that dwell herein,
and for yourself;
do this and it shall be well for you.

25. I will speak freely to you,
and I will give you the sayings of El Elyon
that you may share them among you,
though they will be mocked and scorned by you.

26. Yet all those who would understand will know and share them 
as parables to teach all that would listen,
and as riddles to those that would hold fast to truth.

27. And all those who would infiltrate the hidden mysteries,
all those seeking the beginnings of knowledge,
even those who would hold fast to the secret pleasures;

28. These shall know truth when they find it
and shall teach truth in ways understood by the Godly.

29. And all those who will walk in simplicity
will know the path,
while those who are devious,
those with stiff necks, with hard hearts,
those who do lay with the harlot,

30. These are the customs of fools,
and they will lose the inheritance of Israel.

31. What good is the secret of YHVH?
The mystery of the wisdom of Shekinah?

32. All who search for the beginnings of knowledge,
do you seek wisdom?
What is understanding to you?

33. Why is the heart sought in strength
when the fool cannot hear the parable?

34. What good is the puzzle to you
if even when the solution is found,
it is not understood?

35. What good is wisdom without knowledge?
Knowledge without understanding?

36. Should the prince be our ruler
when the king can be found?
How can we be a nation of kings
if we are without strength?

37. The whip that dominates costs nothing,
for the one does rule when the many accept his rule;
and who is the greater king,
the king of men or the Lord of Hosts?

38. Who among us can say that they seek light and illumination
in the Presence of our Elohim?

39. And by the angels of YHVH,
all those who praise Elohim Shaddai
that they would know the good from evil,
shall know truth.

40. Any plan that lacks mercy lacks justice.



Six

1. O Holy Mother!
Never was there a place unknown unto thee!

2. Never was there one that desired mercy
that you showed not mercy unto them!

3. Who are they that have not asked for your mercy?
Shall Judah be denied thy shield and thy protection?

4. Who are they that have not found solace in you?
In the Presence?

5. Who are they that have not found succor in your bosom?
Or solace in your womb?

6. And who is Israel
that she shall be denied your succor and your solace
that your child should be shattered
and scattered about unto the foreign winds?

7. YHVH, I pray thee!
Give unto me thy hope,
for it is not vain!

8. O Holy Mother,
give unto me your succor and your solace,
for your peace is even an eternal peace!

9. O Elohim,
wipe away these, my tears, that my heart be content;
have mercy for all those that live upon the footstool of YHVH,
and have mercy upon Israel!

10. For my heart is content
to kneel at your footstool,
to gain favor in your sight.

11. My desire, YHVH,
is but to come into your Presence,
to see that beautiful Mother,
the Queen of the Heavens,

12. To dance in Her orchards,
and to gather up the fruits of Her garden,
and to delight in the flowers of Her fields!

13. O Mother of the lamb of sacrifice!
Bride of the Heavens!
Even as YHVH is the very Father of Israel,
so too are you her Mother.

14. How I long to stand in your Presence,
to rest my wounds in the healing power of your flowing waters!

15. O fountain of healing!
O wellspring of grace!
You are a home of peace unto my soul.

16. You are the most precious gem of the heavens,
Mother of YHVH, and a virgin most pure!

17. O Divine Mother,
how you weep for your daughter, Zion!
How you lament for her,
but not in vain!

18. For she shall return unto YHVH
weeping in her sorrows,
humbled in her defeats;

19. Yet YHVH shall be glorious,
yea, YHVH shall ever be undefeated.

20. YHVH, I invoke you in my mourning,
for I know this: In your name have I been spared.

21. You, Zion, shall scorn me,
and leave me forgotten;
but YHVH shall remember.

22. The enemies of YHVH shall falter into eternal anguish,
yet YHVH shall even make a way for these!
And in this shall Israel be forever remembered.

23. For it is by the seed of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob;
and by the seed of Judah, and Peretz, and Chetzron;

24. And by the seed of Ram, and Ammynadab, and Nahshon;
and by the seed of Shalmon, and Boaz, and Obed,

25. And by the seed of Jesse, and David, and Solomon
that salvation shall come.

26. For it was even by the seed of Solomon that Israel was again divided,
but through the seed of David shall Israel be made whole again;
so speaks YHVH,
so mote it be, Amen and amen!

27. And in that day shall Israel feel pains
even as a woman in labor,
for a son will come to save Israel from death.

28. Israel shall labor to bear her a son,
and she shall give birth to a man-child,
and her pains shall bring joy eternal.

29. Her son, O how great he shall be!
Even a counselor with power,
a man with the power to control the wind and the seas;

30. But Israel carries the seed of death in her womb
and shall suffer from the pit in her horror.

31. And the foundations of the walls of the temple will shake
even as a mighty boat being whipped about
upon the face of the waters.

32. Clouds shall grow dark,
like those in the storms of the seas,
and those that live upon the islands shall flee in terror:

33. But shall even as in the great flood,
they shall not escape the roar of the waters
or the desolation of the lands.

34. The wise men of Judah,
their wisdom confounded,
lost in the abyss as the windows of heaven are opened,

34. Yet by their own self-conceit
shall those windows be bolted shut unto them.



Seven

1. YHVH hath divided the creation into seven parts:
the rocks,
the seeds,
the seas,
the seasons,
the humans,
the holy,
and the purification;

2. In these first six there are both light and darkness,
but in the seventh is the Sabbath of YHVH,
and in the seventh are all made whole.

3. The darkness that would corrupt the seven creations:
the sand,
the sterile,
the violence,
the lie,
the treachery,
the lust,
and the perdition.

4. But the lights of the stars
were given to mankind
for a memorial of the name YHVH,

5. And this that the hidden things
of the mysteries of the light shining forth
to end the ways of darkness,

6. And that which is hidden
from upon the earth
shall be made known.

7. And in the last days,
there will be times of great heat upon the earth
where it was once cold,
and periods of cold upon the earth
where there was once great heat,

8. And mankind no longer shall see
the breaking of day or the coming of night,
and the earth, she shall not sleep.

9. And this will be the beginning of the end,
that time when Israel will be gathered back;
for the blood of Abraham shall cover the whole earth.

10. And the Divine Mother,
She who was hidden but not forgotten,
She shall be remembered once again.

11. But before She will return,
there shall come a man
who will remind the daughters of Zion of their place,
yet not to free them, but to enslave them.

12. For he shall take the things of YHVH
and give them as gifts to other elohim,
the elohim of men.

13. He shall take the very things of nature
and give them unto your sisters and your daughters,
as if they were his to give,

14. And he shall see his own greatness
and shall be called Father by many.

15. And this he shall do
that works of darkness be spread forth,
that when the light shall come
to free the daughters of Zion,
they should reject that light.

16. But behold,
the light of YHVH shall cut through the darkness,
and the light shall be divided from the darkness,
that even the very shadows cast therein will vanish.

17. And the daughter of Zion will awaken
and will teach her sister truth,

18. That they shall remember
all that YHVH did give them,
that the sons of Aaron shall keep them away no more.

19. And the daughters of Zion shall listen to the Voice
and shall know the ordinances of YHVH,

20. And this that they might restore the daughters of Israel
to the ways of YHVH.

21. Behold the night skies!
See as the sun moves through the thirteen constellations,

22. Twelve for the sons of Israel
and one for her daughter,
yet the skies, they do rest upon twelve pillars.

23. And so it is
that the year is divided into twelve parts,
moving from moon to moon,

24. Yet the daughter is given her due
when the sons, upon their path, stray in their seasons.

25. And by this does Israel know
when to plant seeds,
and when to harvest,

26. For it is not for mankind to know the times 
nor the seasons,
but YHVH has set them in their places
by His own strength.

27. As Miriam did teach us:
Everything depends upon fate
even the Torah,
for such is the will of YHVH.

28. And so it was that the daughters of Miriam
would lead all of Israel to celebrate YHVH
when He did bring the moon into its fullness
in the night skies.

29. And so too shall it be that in the last days,
the daughters of Israel shall lead us once again
in worship and in ritual,
and in learning.

30. Just as there is a path from east to west
for the sun to travel across the earth each day,

31. She does travel from the north to the south
until the shortest day,
giving up her warmth,
and from the south unto the north
until the longest day;

32. And this that she should bring us her warmth and light.

33. So too is there a path
for every star in the night sky, and for the constellations,
that they do tell us
when to prepare for war, and when to make our bread.

34. Yea, and the stars do tell us their stories,
with Kesil and Kimah, and Ayish in Mezarim 
sharing with us their tales of love, woe, and glory,
as Kimah moves about around the earth.
("Kesil" (כְּסִיל) the exact identification is debated among scholars, but it is often associated with the constellation Orion.)
("Kimah" (כִּימָה) is commonly identified with the Pleiades, a prominent cluster of stars in the constellation Taurus.)
("Ayish" (אַיִשׁ) likely refers to either Ursa Major (the "Big Dipper") or Arcturus (the "North Star"). Also mentioned in Job 9:9 and Job 38:32.)
("Mezarim" (מְזָרִים) likely refers to a set of celestial objects or specific constellations, perhaps those found in the Zodiac.)

35. And as we can see, 
Tzedeq, Ma'adym, Chochevet, and Kochav
do move in their own ways,
and Lebanah and Chamah to light our way.
(Tzedeq (צדק): This term is often associated with the planet Jupiter, the word itself means "righteousness" or "justice".)
(Ma'adym (מאדים): This is the Hebrew name for the planet Mars. The word "Ma'adym" derives from the root "אדם" (adom), meaning red, which coincides with the reddish appearance of Mars in the night sky.)
(Chochevet (כוכבת): likely a feminine variant of the otherwise masculine word for star (Kochav), due to its position in this list with other planets, it seems likely that it refers to the planet Venus.)
(Kochav (כוכב): means "star" in Hebrew, is likely a reference to Mercury due to due to its position in this list with other planets, and that it is listed here like a name for a specific thing.)
(Lebanah (לבנה): This is the Hebrew word for the Moon.)
(Chamah (חמה): This is the Hebrew word for the Sun.)

36. The great light of YHVH coming from Chamah,
the warmth of His life-giving light;
Lord of Hosts
and King of the heavens and the earth!

37. The mercy of YHVH does pour down upon us,
gently and generously;

38. In its time,
and its season,
the heavens do bestow
the love of YHVH
in their way.

39. Give glory to YHVH,
for the face of our Elohim is light and love.



Eight

1. And so it is that when mankind should build
that they do take one stone
and place it upon another stone;

2. And upon these stones,
they do set another stone;
and this they do,
one upon another,
until their wall is complete.

3. Yet when mankind pulls but one stone,
the wall does fall down,
and the rocks fall heavy upon the earth.

4. And so it is that when mankind uses two stones
to hold up another,
it is the keystone;

5. And these they do place over the waters
and to connect the lands,
many feet and hooves may travel over it,
that mankind might be joined as one.

6. So too are the stars in the sky,
as they move and weave their tales,
speaking unto us;

7. When mankind does read the stars to build up walls,
behold they will see but wars and ruin;

8. But when mankind refuses to serve the stars,
but to make the stars the servants of mankind,
then we see that the stars do warn us!

9. O Israel,
O Judah!
O Adam!
When will we heed the warnings of the stars?

10. For these do not claim us,
but we them;
for were they not given us of YHVH?

11. And behold, Adam was not created for the stars,
but the stars for mankind,
and Miriam was taught to read them
that we might know!

12. For the secrets are written,
but the sisters are now lost,
being forbidden to look,

13. And so it is that they no longer know the secret of the way,
nor do they understand the things of old;

14. And because of this,
the daughters of Israel do not know
what should come upon them,

15. So they could not rescue themselves
for they are left without the secret of the stars.

16. But I say unto thee, O sister of Israel, daughters of Zion!
This shall be a sign that surely shall come to pass:

17. When the sources of evil men are shut up,
and wickedness of the oppression of Aaron banished,

18. That you will be in the presence of righteousness,
your priesthood restored
in the last days:

19. The daughters of Zion shall come forth
from the darkness into the presence of light,
and the power of men cannot stop them,

20. For as the smoke vanishes and is no more,
so too shall the wickedness of the men of Israel vanish forever,

21. And the righteousness of YHVH will be manifest
like the sun.

22. The mouths of the daughters of Zion shall be opened,
the sisters of Israel shall gather,
and the world will be made firm;

23. And all the followers of sin
and the secrets of Lilith and Cain
and of the sins of mankind
shall be ran out of Israel.

24. And then will the sisters lead in Israel once again,
and the true knowledge of El’Olam shall fill the earth,
and there will not be any more of the folly of mankind in Zion.

25. And I say unto you this day:
That all that I have spoken will surely happen,
and it is a true oracle of YHVH;

26. And those that will read these words in the last days
shall know that this thing cannot be averted,

27. For it is the very will of YHVH
that Israel’s daughters and her sisters
shall regain their strength
and their authority given them of YHVH.

28. It is true that not all the people will reject evil,
yet the will of YHVH shall move forward,

29. And the sisters will feel the call of YHVH
from the very breath of Elohim within them.

30. And truth shall roll forth to conquer all the nations,
in every tongue and language that can grasp the ways of Israel;
for the true ways of Israel are the ways of YHVH.

31. And in that day,
what nation will rise to oppress Zion?
Can Zion oppressed be overtaken
by another that is not stronger than they?

32. And by this shall you know Zion in the last days:
She shall be a nation
that will not oppress her neighbor,

33. And they shall be a people
that does not rob the wealth of the poor,
nor their labors,
but shall seek to have all things common among them.

34. But before Zion can be built,
Israel must find Zion in their hearts,
that they be purified
and become a people of peace.

35. And in that day
shall the gifts of the daughters of Zion be restored
with their priesthood,
and the keys of the law of Sarah
shall be given and understood;

36. For the keys of the law of Sarah are so named
that we, the daughters of YHVH,
shall not lose our birthright,
nor be taken by the world.

37. And the daughters of Zion
shall be given revelation upon revelation
until all is restored,
even as it was at the first.



Nine

1. O Daughters of Israel! O Daughters of Zion!
May the seed of Miriam reclaim their birthright!

2. May the compassion of Ha’Elohim come unto us,
that the Lord of hosts shall bear His mighty right hand,
that the very king of Heaven
place His blessing upon you forever!

3. Mighty One, shield us
from the harm of hate,
and from the harm of intention,
and shield us from the evil eye!

4. Might that YHVH will lift us up,
even from death,
for YHVH is the Elohim of life!

5. Shield us from all those that would rise against us,
to slander us with their words;
guard us against backbiting and bitterness, and woe.

6. For what should we call one
whose every deed pretends to be in righteousness
yet whose judgement is impure?

7. And what shall we say of one
who would chase after the things of the earth,
and not after what is wise
or that which is righteous?

8. For it is not in Adam that wisdom is hidden;
wisdom is hidden,
except it be the wisdom of a cunning evil,
the schemes of giving for one’s own gain.

9. And this is a thing that must never be done,
but instead we must accept the mitzvoth of the Creator;

10. And what will Adam do that she should live?

11. For she who has violated the mitzvoth of the Creator
shall have their names taken from the mouth of YHVH,
and He shall not know them;

12. Therefore listen,
all of you who will hold true
to the secrets of eternity,
for they are wonderful!

13. And hear the desires behind every deed,
for YHVH does know the truth of your purpose.

14. Yea, and YHVH knows every secret
that lies in the heart of Adam
and reads every thought.

15. YHVH does know every [secret/heart/one],
for YHVH is Lord over all.

16. YHVH is the Creator,
for from long ago YHVH did establish
the heavens and the earth,
and forever is YHVH,
from everlasting to everlasting.

17. And the purpose of creation YHVH has opened up
to all they that will listen
and seek after truth,

18. And YHVH tests His sons and His daughters
that they may see
that these are worthy
of their inheritance.

19. And YHVH does not forget,
but does forgive
those that give unto Him every secret,
and the truth of every deed;

20. And what use has YHVH for these things?
For YHVH did create all people
and knows their deeds.

21. Wherefore, I say unto all those that hear the voice of the oracle:
That this life is the time to learn of YHVH;

22. Therefore, walk today in teshuvah
and harden not your hearts,
that the great plan of redemption will be understood,
and it has been brought about unto you.

23. And I say into all of you now:
That this life is the time to prepare to meet YHVH;
and today is the day for mankind to perform their labors;

24. For the day of salvation draws nigh,
and our enemies are even now at our borders.

25. Look, even now, and see
that angels are declaring it unto many
at this time
in our land,
and the prophets and the prophetesses are about,
take heed to our warnings!

26. And because we have forgotten
the old ways,
the ways of YHVH and His Torah,
because we will not receive
the word of YHVH at this time,
we shall be taken.

27. O you wicked, and perverse, and stiffnecked people!
Why will you not heed the voice of YHVH?
Why do you see this as nought?

28. And even now, at this late hour,
YHVH has shown unto me a great and marvelous thing
concerning that which must shortly come.

29. And when the day does shortly come,
these things shall roll forth among you,
and much truth will be lost and hidden up,
that Israel might return again to YHVH
in the last days;

30. Therefore, watch
and be ready,
guard up your homes.

31. Keep hidden and teach in secret
the truths of YHVH
that your children might know
and tell their children,

32. Until the day shall come
that the mysteries of YHVH
shall be brought again to the light.



Ten

1. Look now at the soothsayers,
those teachers of sin
that have corrupted our ways!

2. I will now speak to you in a parable;
hear my words and teach them to your children,
tell them to teach these words to their children;

3. And this that when the time comes,
then you will know
if any have truly understood.

4. And it came to pass that a rich man desired to teach his son
all the things of the world,

5. And so it was that the son was sent out
into a foreign land
where he studied and learned all that he could
until he was a grown man.

6. And it came to pass that the man returned
to show his father all that he had learned,
that his father would be proud!

7. But when he reached his village,
he did not find his father in the village,
and so it was that he asked of his neighbors for his father’s whereabouts;
but they refused him.

8. Returning to his house,
his father’s servants did not know him,
and thus they did cast him out into the streets.

9. And it came to pass that for all of his learning,
the man had no money,
and could not see his father in that land:

10. And so it was that he took to become a beggar,
for no one knew him
and none would hear him.

11. But the man would not beg for money,
he told all that would hear him of his father,

12. For so great was the love of the father
that he had sent out his son into the world.

13. And it came to pass that after many months came the Passover,
and the man returned again
unto the house of his father,

14. And there a seat was saved for him,
for his father was there,
and he did know him:

15. And upon seeing his son again,
the father said unto his son:
I have set apart this seat for you;

16. Come now and sit upon my right hand,
for I see how you have gone out among these people,

17. And though they knew you not,
they will know you now,
for in you am I well pleased.

18. Study now my words,
the words of Neum,
for they are the words of YHVH,
and by the breath of Ha’Elohim
you will understand it;

19. But in your foolishness
this parable is as a vision that is sealed up from you,

20. For to understand the mysteries of YHVH
you must become wise in the understanding of YHVH,

21. For you have not properly understood the Creator
nor His Wisdom;

22. But if you should unseal the vision,
then you will know of the things to come
and that they are all of YHVH
to your salvation.

23. Hear now what wisdom is:
And it came to pass that a young man
on his way to gather up water from a certain well
that had been with his family for many generations;

24. And on his way,
he did see many beautiful flowers,
and trees filled with fruits.

25. As he walked, he was tempted
by the beauty of the flowers
and by how delicious the fruit appeared,
and eventually he did wander from the path.

26. And it came to pass that as he wandered
farther away from the path,
the boy became lost,
for the forest grew dark
and he could not see.

27. And because he could not see,
he could no longer enjoy the beauty of the flowers,
nor eat of the fruit,
for he could not see it to find them.

28. And it came to pass that he stumbled upon an old shack,
and he dared not to enter,
for the boy thought that inside he might find his ruin
from some unseen force.

29. But the rain began to fall from the skies,
and he hurried into the shack for shelter
only to find that there was no roof upon the head of it.

30. And as the rains fell upon him
in the darkness of the shack,
he began to lose all hope,
and to weep,
and to grow angry for his foolishness.

31. But outside of the woods,
his father had come seeking him,
knowing that he had been gone too long
and not returned with the water.

32. And in his pride,
he hid from the voice of his father,
and would not follow after him,
though he knew that his father would guide him
back to the path.

33. And it came to pass that the pleas of the father grew,
and the pride of the boy subsided,

34. And he did open the door to the shack
and ran forth after the voice of his father.

35. O Israel!
May you release your pride
and run back to that Elohim that did create you!

36. For YHVH is not changeable,
but YHVH is unchangeable
from eternity to eternity:

37. Wherefore, the love of YHVH is unchanging
and shall not grow cold for His Israel;

38. Therefore, know, all of you
that when you seek the darkness no more
that you will hear the voice of YHVH,
and His mercy will be waiting for your teshuvah.

39. And all the lights of the stars
shine in testimony
as for a memorial of Ha’Shem;

40. Therefore, listen, I pray you, to these words,
for hidden within them are the things of YHVH
and the mysteries of the light that shines
that you might avoid the ways of darkness.

41. And when the times of heat and of thirst do come,
and when the times of cold and of hunger do come,

42. Then the breaking forth of the day
and the coming of the night shall be counted,
and the origins of all things shall be known unto you.



Eleven

1. And now I, Neum, the Oracle, shall speak 
unto my children, 
even the children of Joseph
that shall read my words in the last days.

2. Hear me now, O Israel!
Hear the words written so long ago;
for I see you, though I do not understand what I see,
YHVH makes you known unto me,
and I see your sin.

3. And what is this sin?
You have forgotten to read the stars,
and to observe the holy days of YHVH,
and Her Sabbaths,

4. Your love for one another has waxed cold;
the rich eat while the poor go hungry and naked –
yet is this not the sin of every generation of mankind?

5. Yea, look now and ponder this:
How can one understand without knowledge?
How can one listen without hearing?

6. How can one be wise without learning?
How can one hear while speaking?

7. How can one receive mercy without giving mercy?
How can one give a gift without a willingness to receive a gift?

8. How can one seek justice without they themselves accepting justice?
How can one have strength without bending to the winds?

9. YHVH spoke
and the Voice was heard by His children,
and the Voice gave mankind much wisdom
and understanding:

10. YHVH uncovered our ears that we may hear,
our eyes that we may see,
our mouths that we may eat and gain strength,
our feet that we might run to those in need,
and our hands that we might serve El’Olam.

11. YHVH created understanding
for all who seek knowledge and truth,
that they might know all wisdom
that has been given from eternity to eternity:

12. Truth may not be changed,
and the mercy of YHVH is neither hidden
nor locked up behind the waters
that we should receive Him not;

13. For YHVH is El Elyon,
and His Father and His Mother do sit upon their thrones
in the heaven above the heavens,

14. And His Asherah does sit with Him
and presides in the council of Ha’Elohim.

15. And YHVH is known well for His patience,
see how many times He has forgiven Israel
and taken Judah under His mighty arm:

16. And YHVH is known well for the might of His great anger,
and He has turned His wrath against the enemies of Israel;

17. And even as YHVH is known well
for His numerous acts of mercy towards Israel,
He too will be made known as terrible in His wrath
against His people,

18. For we have not honored our covenant,
and over the land YHVH did give us,
we have not made Him our ruler:

19. And though Ha’Elohim is honored
among Israel, His holy people —
among Israel, His chosen people —
we have become a people of industry
and not a holy people.

20. Israel has become great in the blessings of YHVH,
and in seeing our splendor
yet forgotten the Voice of the covenant.

21. Yet we too shall know the mercy of YHVH,
for His righteous anger against us shall pass
and our people shall be humbled
but not utterly destroyed.

22. And when this era of wickedness is at an end,
and evil is abolished in the Messiah,
the Great Ha’Kohen shall make the final sacrifice.

23. And we know the genealogies:
Abraham begot Isaac,
and Isaac begot Jacob,
and Jacob begot Levi,

24. And Levi begot Qohath,
and Qohath begot Amram,
and Amram begot Aaron,

25. And Aaron begot Eleazar,
and Eleazar begot Phinehas,
and Phinehas begot Abishua,

26. And Abishua begot Buqi,
and Buqi begot Azzi,
and Azzi begot Zerahiah,

27. And Zerahiah begot Meraioth,
and Meraioth begot Azaryhu,
and Azaryhu begot Amariah,

28. And Amariah begot Achytub,
and Achytub begot Tzadok;

29. And it was Tzadok Ha’Kohen
in the days of our kings, David and Solomon,
who were mighty before YHVH,
yet in their pride even they did sin against YHVH;

30. And Tzadok begot two sons,
Ahimaaz who was High Priest over Israel,
and Zenoch;

31. And Zenoch was made a priest in the lands of Joseph,
and there he served us in a temple of our lands;

32. And Zenoch begot Zenock,
the seer and prophet.

33. Even as we, in this day,
do write the words of Zenock, the son of Zenoch,
we do not understand them.

34. And even as we do seek out Zenoch the priest
to make sacrifices unto YHVH,
I see that you, in the last days,
do seek out the priests
that you might accept the sacraments of YHVH,

35. But even as the people do not harken unto Zenock
and his brethren, the prophets,
nor will they give heed unto my words,
they will be gathered and kept
as a testimony against them;

36. So you do gather up the words,
but will you listen?
Will you heed them?

37. When the Great Ha’Kohen offers up His mercy,
will you accept it, O Israel,
with the first and last great sacrifice –
that of the broken heart and contrite spirit?

38. I ask those of you that are wise to ponder:
If Adam has a good tree,
one that does grow upward,
even into the heavens,
will he not love it?

39. And if Adam does love it,
will he not care for the soil about it?

40. And when Adam sees that the tree grows
heavy with the best fruit each year,
watching it grow in the rains of autumn and in the spring,
but sees it thirst in the heat of the summer,
will he not give it water?

41. And will Adam not see to protect it,
and to keep it safe?

42. And will he not see fit to multiply the seeds of the tree
and to nurture that orchard, to grow it
and protect the branches of it?

43. For even as the Voice has come
unto the prophets and prophetesses of your generation,
so to have they come through the voice of all generations;

44. Therefore, when the days shall come
that all that has been shall be gathered into one,
stand watch that you will be ready.



Twelve

1. And now I, Neum, the Oracle, shall speak
unto my people the words which I have been given
of the Voice of El’Olam.

2. So says YHVH unto you:
I have blessed you,
and I have set you apart, my Israel;
yet you have squandered my gifts
and torn my people in two;

3. You have made my holy days unclean,
and burn up the meat of your sacrifices,
and the smoke is not pleasing unto me,
for ash and dust cannot feed my people!

4. To make an atonement,
your sacrifice must be pure,
and for the sacrifice to be pure
my people must be pure;

5. And for my people to be pure before me
you must be clean before me,
and to be clean before me
you must wash yourselves in my mercy.

6. And what is my mercy?
It is the mercy of Israel;
for in Zion there are no rich and no poor,

7. There are none that shall go naked
or be turned away hungry,
or fearful of the wrath of another.

8. But my ways are not your ways;
therefore, how are you my Israel?
Who are you that you would be my people?

9. Where in you can be found
the mercy my servant Abraham showed
in feeding all that came unto him?

10. You come before me with gifts,
yet it is I that created all things,
what need have I for your sacrifices?

11. The sacrifice of your heart
is to give of your blood to help one another,
this is the Covenant of your mothers and fathers
that they did make with me.

12. And in the days of your purity,
you will give without ceasing,

13. And the food of Israel will be pure,
even as manna from the heavens,
and the widow will give thanks,
and her children shall not go hungry.

14. And in that day that you shall clean yourselves before me,
I shall offer unto you a new and everlasting covenant,
and Israel will again be my people.

15. The purity of the righteous shall be known throughout all the earth,
as there shall be no want in Zion,
and no judgement given to those in need.

16. And to the poor shall be given the best gifts,
and the best food;
and there shall be no rich among you,
that there shall not be any poor.

17. Do this and I shall establish a statute of my atonement among you,
and even as you go into the waters dirty,
you shall come up out of the waters clean.

18. And as you come forth from the waters, you shall say:
Blessed are you, YHVH,
for through the Great Ha’Kohen does our salvation come!

19. By your purity, YHVH,
and by your glory is my salvation come!

20. And even as I have given you, my children,
so to will you give unto all that are in need.

21. But now my wrath is set,
for I have sent my prophets and prophetesses
to give you my words;
but you, Judah and Israel,
would not hear them.

22. For I have not changed my words,
but you have sought to change them;

23. I have not transgressed against you, my chosen people,
but you have transgressed against me;
therefore, you shall not know peace,
even so, Amen.



Thirteen

1. And now I, Neum, the Oracle, shall speak again
unto those that shall read these, my words,
at the last days:

2. Look and see,
for it shall come to pass that in the last days
the earth shall tremble,

3. The very heavens shall be moved
in the wrath of YHVH,
and the creation shall moan;

4. For the world shall fall ill to the iniquity of mankind;
yea, the greed of men shall be as a poison
that will drain the earth of its life,
and it shall become sick:

5. To and fro shall the earth shake,
and the nations shall tremble;
but in their greed mankind shall avail it as not;

6. Smoke shall fill the earth,
and the blood of the creation shall be sold,
and that great leviathan shall rise up out of the deep
and choke the life.

7. Yea, the sea shall be emptied,
and the rivers moved;
the forests shall be burned up,
and the mountains torn down;
the winds shall destroy,
and the rain shall be as a poison.

8. And there shall come a famine in all the lands,
for the greed of mankind will steal away the food for the poor,
and the widows shall go hungry,

9. And not merely for a want of food,
but for a lack of love in the hearts of men;
yea, their hearts shall wax cold.

10. And the leaders of men
in their priestcraft shall take for themselves many wives,
even the wives of they that serve under them,

11. And they shall call themselves prophets,
but they shall defile themselves with these women,
and shall break the hearts of the daughters of Zion.

12. But the daughters of YHVH shall arise,
and these shall be given the stones,
even as YHVH did command Israel,
teaching again their daughters
to take upon them their Thummim and their Urim;

13. And the Voice shall come forth with them,
and they shall speak even with tongues of fire.

14. And behold, it shall be known
by that stone that the priestess shall hold in her left-hand,
yea even that stone which is on the left side of her;

15. And it shall be uncovered before the whole congregation
until the priestess is finished in her utterance;

16. Yea, and after the Breath has gone out of her,
you shall keep her words and write them,

17. And the people of the congregation shall bow down unto the earth
and shall pray as one;

18. And then you, the congregation shall ask,
in the name of the Eternal Father,
if her words be true;

19. And if you will ask with a pierced heart,
in faith,
being filled with that same Breath,
then the Voice shall tell it unto you.

20. And once you know it to be true
that a prophetess has spoken unto you,
then you shall hear her words,
and harken not unto any who would counsel rebellion
against YHVH, our Elohim.

21. And if it needs be that she makes some miracle
in the name of YHVH,
then she shall take the stone that she shall have in her right-hand,
even that stone which is on the right side of her;

22. And when the priestess comes forth
to make manifest the will of YHVH,
it shall even be as flames of fire
coming forth from that stone of her right-hand;
and this because it is the Urim.

23. And after this, when she goes up to draw near unto the people,
YHVH, our Elohim, the El’Olam of Israel, shall dwell there
among the congregation,
and they shall be the Shekinah,
for they do dwell in the Presence of YHVH.

24. Remember what YHVH has said
unto the daughters of Zion:
And they made for them the mițpaḥath
of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

25. And they did beat gold into thin plates and cut it into wires,
to work it in the blue,
and in the purple,
and in the scarlet,
and in the fine linen
with cunning work.

26. And they made shoulder pieces for the mițpaḥath,
which were joined to two of its corners for fastening it.

27. And the curious girdle of her mițpaḥath
that was upon it was of the same,
according to the work thereof;
of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen
even as YHVH did command Moses and Zipporah;

28. And they did put them
upon the shoulders of the mițpaḥath for them,
an urim and thummim,

29. That they should be stones for a memorial
to the congregation of Israel
of the faith of the daughters of Israel,

30. That they did not need a sign
when YHVH was ready to lead Israel from Egypt.

31. Wherefore, daughters of Zion in the last days:
Do not be lead away in priestcraft,

32. But let the urim and thummim rest upon thy shoulders
and take again your place in Israel.

33. Let not men lead you astray into wicked priestcrafts,
taking you from your husbands,
leaving you broken hearted.

34. See that the widows and the fatherless are cared for,
that the treasures of the creation of YHVH be dispersed
that none go hungry nor are afraid;
amen and amen.



Fourteen

1. And now Judah, I, Neum, the Oracle, have spoken 
unto you again and again,
but I know that you will not heed my words:

2. It is even as Zenock has already spoken unto you:
YHVH is angry,
for Israel will not accept the mercy of the Son;

3. And you have threatened this man,
the son of a priest of YHVH and a prophet of YHVH
with death,
and for what?

4. Would you slay him
when he does beg for the life of Israel?
And for the very life of Judah?

5. Know you not that he does not speak out against you,
but in favor of YHVH
and by the will of YHVH,
even as you do hear me speak it?

6. Do you not understand
that this man, Zenock, has been ordained
by the hands of the angel Raphael?
This he has testified,
and his deeds do bear witness!

7. Wherefore, it is said by those that do follow him
that he is Morah Ha’Tzedek,
for unto him has been given the High Priesthood:

8. And I say unto you further:
That I am a disciple of that Zenock, the very same;
and have been ordained by his hand Morah Ha’Migdalah;

9. Therefore, if you would slay him,
would you do well to slay me also?
But this I know that you will not do,
for the Voice has spoken it unto me.

10. Wherefore, here me this day, O Israel;
yea, hear the words of El’Olam,
even as you did hear them in the of days of old
from the prophetesses:

11. Yea, from Zipporah and Miriam,
and from Rahab,
and from Deborah,

12. And from Abigail,
and from Noadyah,
and from Beulah,
and even from Chuldah
who did testify of Sefer Ha’Torah; 
[this reenforces the idea that Sefer Ha’Torah was Sealed Moses from the Sealed Book]

13. Yea, from all of them and more,
do you not remember?
How quickly you forget your mothers,
O Israel!

14. And it was by their sins
that the children of Adam and Eve did forget the letters
that were taught unto their parents by Raziel:

15. For on the day that the earth was created,
the letters were written upon the night sky,

16. And YHVH did give unto the daughters of Israel their mitzvot
through our mothers,
even Miriam and Zipporah—

17. Even to learn the letters;
yea, to learn to read the night skies.

18. I say unto you now, O Israel:
Teach your sons and daughters to read
and no army will ever truly conquer Israel!

19. The letters have been with Israel from the beginning,
and though their shapes may change,
to know them is to know YHVH, our Elohim;

20. Therefore, I do say unto you this day:
To know the letters
is to know the mysteries of YHVH;

21. Yea, teach the letters unto your children
and they will know the secret doctrine.

22. The Torah is revealed
to every generation,
to those who love her;
yea, her voice is as a still whisper,
her message only given unto they that show her affection.

23. She does hide her face in a veil,
for her beauty is like no other;
for she is wild,
and none may possess her;

24. Yet she does love Israel,
even as YHVH does love Israel,
and she will not forsake us,
nor will she abandon Judah;

25. Yea, she will teach us all she knows
if we will but ask her;
her light will illuminate the path O Israel,
if you will open your eyes to see her.

26. And how can you see that which you do not love?
To love her, is to know her,
and to know her, O Israel,
you must know the letters.

27. I say into you again:
If you will not learn the letters of the Torah,
she will stay hidden from you,
in spite of her love for you;

28. Therefore, O Israel, seek to learn the letters
and breathe into the Torah deeply,
loving her with your heart,
and she will take you by your hand
and lead you back home to YHVH.



Fifteen

1. And what shall the Torah teach you, O Israel?
What secrets should she desire you to learn from her?

2. From the very beginning, Moses taught
that YHVH did divide that light from the darkness,

3. And when mankind is given to know good from evil,
or to separate the light from darkness,
so it is that they can tell the Presence from the adversary,

4. And so it is that Israel too must give herself unto YHVH,
that He should divide the light from the darkness,
and it shall be given us to know.

5. And in that light that does break through the darkness,
you shall behold the pathways white and delightsome,

6. Think not that they are as water,
for they are not paths in mercy
but of life itself;

7. That of the flesh is not that of the spirit,
for in the flesh lies death
and in the spirit life;
and so it is that there are two sets of tablets:

8. Upon the sapphire tablets is inscribed the Torah,
and upon the emerald tablets is the secrets of the temple of YHVH.

9. And when Moses was given the Torah,
Israel was not ready,
and so it was that the tablets were broken
and destroyed by the hand of Moses.

10. And so it was that Moses was commanded
to make a second set of tablets,
also of sapphire,
upon which is written the Torah:

11. And the Torah of sapphire is the right hand of El’Olam,
and the covenant;
and the Torah or emerald is the left hand of El’Olam,
even life;

12. And betwixt these is the Torah of marble
that unites the right and the left,
and written upon it is the heart,

13. And there are thirty-two paths
cut from that same marble
that does connect them,
and this is the very tree of life.

14. And this tree can only be found
when mankind should eat
from that tree of the knowledge of good and evil,

15. For only then can the light be divided from the darkness,
and the earth formed from out of that void.

16. And I, Neum, the Oracle, have seen the tree
as I have walked about the garden in vision;

17. And there is the Eden of the earth,
and the Eden of the heavens,
and these are one creation.

18. And that creation is thus:
Life nephesh which is the birth of the soul,
life ruach which is the breath and awareness of Ha’Elohim,
life neshamah which is the understanding of YHVH,
life chayah which is the oneness of YHVH,
and life yechidah which is life the eternal creation of YHVH.

19. And these may be seen in the En-Sof Adam Kadmon:
intelligence,
spirit,
flesh,
soul,
and yachid –
the eternal life given olam ha’ba;

20. Therefore, know O Israel,
that there is no beginning nor end to life
for there is not beginning or ending
to YHVH or His creation.

21. Why then is Israel given the Torah of sapphire, Judah?
We keep the sapphire temple,
when shall we be given the Torah of emerald?
And what of the Torah of marble?

22. O Judah! O Israel!
Do you not know that these are given?
The mysteries of YHVH are before our eyes,
if we will but see them!

23. YHVH did know that the first tablets should be destroyed,
and would it have been better for them not to be given?

24. I say unto you: No,
for YHVH knows all things,
therefore YHVH creates and YHVH destroys;

25. YHVH Elohim is the Creator,
and YHVH, our Elohim, is destroyer;
yet all that YHVH destroys YHVH heals;

26. Therefore, there is a wisdom in YHVH
that the first Torah was given,
for in the letters written upon the tablets are the covenant
between Israel and our Elohim.

27. And had the Torah not been written
by the hand of YHVH
there should be no day and no night,
no earth and no sky;

28. For the heavens and the earth,
they do belong to YHVH,
the Creator,

29. And the Torah of sapphire cannot be destroyed,
for it is written upon the heavens,
as they who read do know;

30. And the Torah of Moses was written
by the finger of YHVH
that the stories should be known
when the stars would no longer be read,

31. For the Torah shall forever be told from mouth to ear,
but these shall change as Israel does forget her Elohim.

32. And this Torah was first given unto the whole earth,
but mankind would not circumcise their hearts,
and thus was Israel set apart;

33. Therefore, through Israel shall the creation be finished,
and Eden restored,
but not yet;

34. For in the last days,
the Torah of sapphire shall be written upon the hearth of the earth,
and sealed within the hearts of tzaddikimare,
yet they shall know it not.

35. And the warmth of that fire shall gather them,
that they shall find safety and peace in Zion:

36. And though Babylon shall seek to make war with them,
they shall not find them;

37. And when Zion shall be found,
their peace shall be so great
that all nations shall fear them.

38. And this shall they say:
War not against Zion,
for should our people see their way,
they shall leave us and serve us no more!

39. And El’Olam shall stand on high,
and YHVH shall be in their high places,
and the Presence of Elohim shall go before them,
for they shall be one.



Sixteen

1. And now, Judah, prepare for your slumber!
In your wickedness you have forgotten YHVH,
but YHVH has not forgotten Israel.

2. When a man or woman sleeps,
their soul does for a time leave them,
as their spirit rests and their body slumbers;

3. And ascending on high,
YHVH gives an account
of the deeds and acts of men;

4. Therefore, in the last days
shall Israel awaken from their slumber,
and YHVH shall pour out Ruach Ha’Kodesh
upon Israel and upon all people:

5. And when your sons and your daughters shall awaken,
they shall see,
for they shall prophesy of truth,

6. And your men shall dream dreams,
and your women shall see visions,
and your elders shall know truth and testify,
and YHVH shall cease to hide His face.

7. And the herald shall cry out:
Assemble and gather together all these sayings,
for the Voice has spoken again to mankind!

8. For there had been a silence in the heavens
as the earth was prepared for that last hour to unfold.

9. But then the moon shall shed her light again upon the earth,
that there should no longer be darkness in the night,

10. And winged messengers shall make noise
and the earth shall hear them,

11. And when the priesthood of YHVH
shall be restored unto the earth
it shall not ever again leave her.

12. And in the last days there shall be those that say:
What the Lord has given,
He did take away again,
but come unto me,
and I will restore Zion to her glory and fullness!

13. But behold, I have seen,
and I am the oracle of YHVH,
therefore I do know;

14. This priesthood should never leave the earth,
but shall fill it,
spreading like a fire
to consume the righteous in the power of YHVH!

15. And they that do rise at midnight
to meditate upon the mysteries of YHVH
and the secrets of El’Olam,
unto them shall a portion be given.

16. All they that do dwell in the garden
and do walk about the orchard
shall be given a lamp,
and all they that would put oil therein
shall be a light upon the path.

17. And these shall taste the fruit of that tree,
and it shall be sweet!

18. And the bitterness of the rotten seeds shall be rooted out,
that the good fruit should not be contaminated,
and that tree be purified.

19. And the name of that fruit shall be Ephraim,
and even the seed of Joseph,
who is the seed of Israel:

20. For Israel shall repent,
and Ephraim remember,
for he is a delightful child,
and a precious son unto El’Olam;

21. Therefore, I have seen
that through the seed of Ephraim
Israel shall be restored.

22. And he shall bring forth the garment of his father,
even the cloak of many colors,

23. And it shall be given again unto Israel
that the Torah of emerald should be made known;

24. And when the Torah of sapphire,
which is the covenant,
is read again,

25. And the Torah of emerald,
which is life eternal,
is acted upon,

26. Then shall the Torah of marble
be opened up onto you,
O Israel.

27. And the thirty-two paths of the righteous
shall be walked in the garden
and the fruit of the tree eaten once more.

28. And then shall Adam and Eve be one
that Ruach Ha’Kodesh shall dwell in Israel
for this is the temple of YHVH, our Elohim;

29. For though Babylon shall burn the holy house
and plunder its riches,
they cannot steal the treasures
hidden within.

30. When Adam and Eve are united in El Elyon
the neshamah rises
and truth and light are freely given and received in YHVH,
and Israel is free.



Seventeen

1. The name of YHVH, the Creator
is written and engraved
above, below, and on all sides
of this, the creation,
for it is His;

2. And the shekhinah of YHVH is in the Tabernacles,
and in the temples,
and in the tents of the tallitot:
Seek Him there.

3. And at the first, in Israel, there was only the Tabernacle,
but with kings came the desire
to tie down the dwelling place of YHVH:

4. And who could contain El Elyon?
Not you, O man!

5. Yet YHVH did allow the temples to be built;
yet these were not built for YHVH,
but for Israel!

6. And what thanks did you give?
Letting strange elohim into these holy places;

7. And so it shall be that when Israel shall fall,
and she shall fall,
even as YHVH declared,
for did He not say:

8. Because they be a stiff-necked people, it shall be
that when they shall keep my mitzvoth,
they shall be blessed upon the face of this land,

9. And there shall be none to molest them
nor to take away from them the lands of their inheritance;

10. And they shall be a blessed people
upon the promised land forever:

11. And nothing, save it shall be iniquity among them,
shall harm or disturb their prosperity
upon the face of this land forever:

12. But if iniquity shall abound,
cursed shall be the land for their sakes;
but unto the righteous, it shall be blessed forever.

13. And we see that Israel to the north has fallen,
and what then shall be the fate of Judah
if we do not keep the Torah?

14. What shall be our fate
when we pollute the temples of YHVH?

15. What shall be our fate
when we do go burning incense to other strange elohim?

16. Would we not share their fate?
For we too are Israel,
the seed of Jacob.

17. And this I know, for I have seen
the temple in Jerusalem, that holy dwelling,
burnt, and ransacked, and the things of YHVH brought out
to mock Israel.

18. And YHVH has shown me, and I have seen
our enemies go before us,
mocking.

19. And then shall a man of YHVH come forth, saying:
All who honored her debase her
because they have seen her nakedness.

20. And why should YHVH protect
the resting place of the Torah
that is not kept in your heart,
O Israel?

21. Wherefore,
YHVH shall again remove the ark of the testimony from Israel;
yea He will take it away
and then it must be written upon our hearts,
O Judah.

22. This I have foreseen,
and this warning you shall ignore;
and yet this is for a wise purpose in YHVH,
for El’Olam does know.

23. And you shall see, O Judah,
that the house of YHVH is built in Her wisdom,
for YHVH does know
that Shekinah did build the house of YHVH
in seven pillars;

24. And YHVH does hold up Her seven pillars,
and His waters, they nourish them,
and the righteous do eat of the fruit therein.

25. And in the darkness, a light does shine forth
from His secret place,

26. And all they that go about in search of Truth
are given the secret doctrines,
and they sing in hymns of worship.

27. And this is even as Abram and Sarai
who left Egypt
and ascended into the mysteries of YHVH,

28. And were reborn Abraham and Sarah
and learned Her secret wisdom
and were true and faithful in their worship.

29. O Israel, O Judah!
O that you would also be true and faithful to YHVH
who did keep the covenant of our fathers and our mothers!

30. But were we faithful?
No.

31. And because we have asked for this divorcement,
YHVH will watch over us
as it is we who have retreated back into Egypt;

32. But the Torah of YHVH shall never be taken,
so long as we keep her written in our hearts:

33. And in this shall the Word of YHVH be written
upon all the creation around us,
and upon our hearts within;
in this is the salvation of Israel.


Eighteen

1. And now, Judah, I will prophecy unto you once again;
for I am the oracle of YHVH,
and YHVH is the hope of Israel;

2. Therefore, I say unto you:

3. How firm is the foundation
build upon YHVH, our Elohim!

4. And upon this shetiyyah is Zion built:
By the Chozeh, even those who see.

5. And this is the rock
whereupon this earth was created and built up,
and in it is the life of Israel;

6. For if mankind were to open their eyes to see,
then the adversary would have no power
over the hearts of mankind,
and the unknown would be known:

7. For the seer does know,
and does testify
that there is one above all,
and one below,

8. And one between two,
and two who do beget a third,
and that the three become one,

9. And that one sends forth the divine light and life,
and there are seen six on the one side
and six upon the other
(the visible and invisible work),

10. And the six do rise to become twelve,
and the twelve reveal the twenty-two symbols,

11. And the six are a part of the ten elohim
from the first day of the creation,
and the ten are the one.

12. And this is the shetiyyah where upon Zion does dwell;
and therefore, wake up, O Judah,
and wake up your brothers,
even Israel;

13. For you will be judged in your slumber,
and when the body is defiled,
the soul does flee from out of it:

14. But in YHVH comes new life,
and then death shall be no more;
for YHVH is El Elyon,
and His is over all things,
even life and death;

15. Therefore, YHVH is the hope of Israel,
and though your children shall not see His hope,
it will dwell within them,
that their children,
and their children’s children
shall find it.

16. And though you shall be cast out,
and thrown down,
you will find YHVH again,
and you will revere Him once more.

17. So says Neum, the oracle of YHVH.



Nineteen

1. And now, I shall speak 
unto all those that are wise,
if you would but listen:

2. And what is wisdom but to know good from evil?
Was this not the sin of mankind?

3. No, but the sin was to take before that thing was given;
therefore, it was their shame,
and the shame of Adam could not be hidden.

4. And this, O Judah, is the secret of sin:
For Adam and Eve were told not to take for themselves,
and yet they did take before their time.

5. They did know,
yet they did not understand;
and therefore the adversary did deceive them;

6. And thus, they could not rescue themselves;
for they understood not
what should come to pass,
and thus is mankind cast from the garden.

7. Likewise, O Judah, was Israel taken,
and so too shall Judah be thrown down;

8. And here is the sign that these things must come to pass:
When evil was given,
evil was taken,

9. And when the widows and the fatherless were hungry,
they were not fed
even though you had an abundance of food,
O Judah.

10. What nations should want to be oppressed by their neighbor?
Who that is weak wishes to be ruled by those that are stronger?

11. Where is the righteous man that has not taken from his neighbor?
Come now and defend our boarders!

12. But there are none that shall come to your aid this time,
O Judah;

13. For you did not understand
the things of old;
therefore, you could not foresee
that what is to come.

14. Who can come and rescue
the people that cannot see
things as they truly are?

15. But not all is in vain,
I shall tell you of another sign,
O Judah:

16. When evil is shut up,
and wickedness is bound up,
and righteousness does abound,
the light of YHVH shall shine forth as the sun.

17. And it will come to pass
that truth shall fill the world,
and the world shall be see
no more war,

18. But the strong will protect the weak,
and those with food shall feed all that are hungry.

19. And this shall be
because the Father shall come in the flesh,
even the son of the Eternal Father,

20. And though He will be our king,
we will not be His people,
and we will despise Him,
and mock Him,
and send Him away.

21. And He will teach us,
and will heal the sick,
but His deeds will be judged impure;

22. He who gave us the Torah,
through the hands of Moses,
shall we reject and cast out
and give unto our enemies
that He should be put to death:

23. But He is our Father,
even the Father of our salvation,
and He will take upon Himself all our sins,

24. And this He will do because of His great love for us,
and for our father, Abraham
and our mother, Sarah.

25. And I have seen that He will return to us,
for He is the master of life and death;
and though He will die,
we cannot kill him
for He is our Elohim!

26. And He should rise on the third day
and take many up with Him.

27. And in the last days He will come again,
even as He did leave they that loved Him
when He did walk the earth.

28. And though the children of our Father shall proclaim His peace,
they shall endure violence;

29. Yet this is but for a time;
and when Zion is come into them,
their peace shall be so great
that all will fear them:

30. And there will be no more wars against Zion,
for her daughters will teach the children to see
and the fathers will teach the children to know,

31. And all that would make war against Zion
will fear that their people would see them,

32. For should they see Zion
they would through down their swords
and covenant never to shed blood upon the earth again,

33. And what can you say, O Judah of this?
Will you be Zion?
No.

34. And so it shall be that Judah will fall to her enemies,
that the blood of Israel shall be spread among all the earth,
that the salvation of YHVH must come.



Twenty

1. And in that day,
when YHVH shall come unto the earth,
there shall be such a joy among the malakim of the heavens!

2. For YHVH is willing to reconcile with you, O Israel,
His hand is stretched out
towards all those that do love Him.

3. Take His hand, O Judah,
and declare your love reconciled
in the restoration of all things;

4. Refuse not the hand of the Lord of lords,
that death shall not overtake you.

5. The love of YHVH for Israel
is even as the love of a husband to his bride,
and without this marriage the world should not exist:

6. For YHVH is the husband,
desiring only to bestow unto his bride,
that she, in her love, should receive
all that He does have;

7. But when Israel should refute His love,
and not receive of His fullness,
then the love of YHVH should be given to another,
even unto the gentiles.

8. Yet when Israel should be restored
unto her former glory,
then shall YHVH come again unto His bride,
and take her unto Himself;

9. And their love shall be eternal,
and there shall be neither Judah nor gentile,
for all that walk upon that straight path to our Elohim
shall be Israel.

10. And their love shall be so great
that their fire will never be extinguished,
but all that Israel should desire
will YHVH give unto her:

11. And this because she will never again look unto another’s eyes
lusting in adultery
but shall be forever faithful
unto her first love.

12. O Israel, O Judah!
Why do you go a lusting after other elohim
created by the hands of men?

13. Why does your faith stray as an adulterous heart
when YHVH desires nothing
but to give you all that is in the heavens and the earth?

14. What more could these false elohim give
but doubt and troubles,
leaving your hearts longing
for the days when YHVH would hear us when we cried out?

15. For did YHVH not hear our cries
for food in the wilderness
and give us manna and pheasants?

16. And when we did thirst,
did El’Olam not send forth Moses and Aaron to strike the rocks
that we might drink?

17. And even now,
YHVH has living water for you,
but you will not drink it,
for it seems bitter unto you.

18. But His water is sweet to the taste,
and His manna does make us to never hunger again;

19. Therefore, let go of these false elohim,
worship not your vain sacrifices,

20. For YHVH is full from the fatted rams
because you do burn them up
and do not feed the poor among us.

21. His daughters come not before Him at the full moon anymore,
and his sons come to Him on the new moons with vain sacrifices:

22. Wherefore, seek you, O Judah,
the mercy of YHVH
and to be His hands once more;

23. Make the widows your mothers and your wives, O Israel;
make the orphans your sons and your daughters, O Judah:

24. Plead their case before Elohim Shaddai,
and the mercy that you would give unto them
shall YHVH, your Elohim, return unto you
even seven fold;

25. And seven times upon seventy times shall you be blessed, O Judah,
but will you hear?
And if you do hear, will you listen?

26. And YHVH will turn His mighty hand toward you,
but you shall not be wiped from the face of this earth,

27. But you shall be sent out, O Israel,
that this creation might be turned
from corruptible into incorruptible,
for this is the power of YHVH
unto salvation.


Twenty-one

1. As I have said to you:
The heavens, as they are crowned with stars,
teach us her mysteries.

2. By this we know
that order cannot come from the earth to the heavens,
but all truth must come from the heavens to the earth.

3. And we can see clearly:
Upon the earth,
there are servants and slaves that seek to be free;

4. But in the heavens,
it will be the slaves and the servants that are free,
and those that were free will be as servants
to those that were unjustly enslaved upon the earth.

5. Upon the earth,
a daughter born is given by her father to another man;

6. But in the heavens,
no woman will be given nor taken,
but she will be free to be
even as she desires in her heart.

7. Upon the earth,
the living do become sick,
and even those that are healthy do die,
taken even when we do not suspect.

8. But in the heavens,
there is no death,
but the creation will live forever,
and none will grow old, and none will grow sick,
and death will be forgotten, swallowed up in YHVH.

9. Upon the earth,
life is eaten,
and death is abundant,

10. But in the heavens,
love shall abound forever,
and life is eternal,

11. Were it not so,
the Son of man should not need come into this earth.

12. But it is even as I have said,
and this I do know,
for El’Olam has shown it to me;
for He is Elohim Shaddai,
and He cannot lie.

13. Know that this earth was created
for a great purpose in YHVH,
and Ha’Elohim did gather and watch over the works,
and YHVH Elohim did declare them good;

14. And the union of the earth and the heavens
is even as the union between a husband and his wife,
and the union between Israel and YHVH
a wife and her husband:

15. And Israel is neither given, nor is she taken,
but she did come to YHVH of her own will,
and she did cry out to YHVH, saying:

16. All that YHVH has spoken, we will do!

17. Likewise, the earth has cried out to the heavens,
and is faithful to YHVH
and to Ha’Elohim,
and shall be rewarded in their union.

18. And what seed does Israel bear?
If her love be YHVH,
then her seed shall resemble her husband,

19. But should she love another,
and reject the covenant,
then her seed shall resemble her adulterer;

20. For Israel is not owned
but YHVH does loves her,
and she is free to reject her husband,

21. But when she does forget her promise:
All that YHVH has spoken, we will do!

22. Yet YHVH does not forget His love for her,
O Israel,
and He will wait for her restoration to come.

23. YHVH is a jealous Elohim,
yet He is El Elyon,
and has been patient towards you,
O Judah,

24. YHVH does not desire your destruction,
but does call you back in teshuvah!

25. The day of His wrath is coming,
yet His restoration will also come,
and you will see that He has been faithful
and that He loves His Israel;
amen and amen.



Twenty-two

1. O Judah, how I lament your woes!
You have demanded justice
without mercy for your enemies,
and now you will be given justice
for your own crimes.

2. You remember the holy days,
but forget your oaths to be a holy people
to YHVH, who is holy.

3. You pour out your libations,
and the smoke rises from the fires of your sacrifice,
but the water is polluted,
and the smoke is a bitter scent.

4. You have robbed the poor,
and stolen the food of the hungry,
and think that burning up the fat of cows and rams
will quench the hunger of Ha’Elohim.

5. But know that every woman cries
in the pain of her labor when she gives birth,
and you, O Judah, shall cry in pain
as you give birth to the children of your distress.

6. Yet when you do see, O Judah,
the love that YHVH does have for you
and your sons and your daughters,
then you will cry out
in the joy of your redemption.

7. And at the end of days,
the wars shall see their endings,
and the temples will again be consecrated to YHVH Elohim;

8. And the true arts will be taught again,
and truth will be written upon pillars
that will rise into the skies,

9. And YHVH will come down from the clouds
and the earth, she will receive Him

10. And then will the heavens and the earth be one,
and hymns of joy will be sung forever and ever:

11. For the heavens will be open
and the treasures of heavens poured out upon this earth!

12. And Israel will abandon her pride,
and the daughters of Zion will be given their due,

13. For the days of their oppression will have ended,
and they will be lifted up by the right hand
and crowns placed upon their heads.

14. And their tears shall be wiped away forever,
and their hearts shall not be broken again.

15. And this because YHVH Elohim is the one
who does consecrate
and does purify
all that would walk in His gardens
and tend to His fields.

16. And all will see and know the glory of YHVH
and will bow down before Him
and shall proclaim His salvation.

17. And then shall all the earth see
the love YHVH has for His bride,
even Israel,

18. And shall see her salvation
from the beginning to the end,

19. And having repented of her sins,
she will go forth unto YHVH forever and ever,
never again to taste of death or sin.

20. And Israel shall say:
YHVH has called me back,
He is my redeemer!

21. Though I did turn my back on Him,
He never did look away,
and in His compassion,
He has brought me back:

22. And though I hid my face for a time and times,
with everlasting compassion YHVH did remember me!

23. And my love is forever for YHVH,
He is my husband,
and our love will never be broken.

24. And then shall the poor be fed,
and the fatherless be cared for,
and there shall not be rich nor poor,
but all will be one
in YHVH.

25. Even as it was in the beginning;
even so, amen and amen.
