book: The Book of the Wars of YHVH

book-aka: The Book of Wars of the LORD

book-sum: The Battles of Israel, as recorded by Joshua, son of Nun, the Servant of Moses.

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/


---
chapter: Chapter 1

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/1

1. And it came to pass that in the thirty-second year from the time that Israel did leave Egypt by the hand of Moses and the power of YHVH, that YHVH did come unto Moses, saying:

2. Take Joshua, the son of Nun, thy servant, and have him write these things as a memorial for thee in a book(or scroll).

3. And Moses did so, and he took a book (or scroll) and gave it unto Joshua, the son of Nun, and he wrote upon it the words of YHVH given by Moses, saying:

4. Remember what Amalek hath done unto thee in the road when thou traveled forth from Egypt.

5. And who was it that did meet thee in the road and smote thy rear, even those that were feeble behind thee when thou wast faint and weary?

6. So it shall be when YHVH, thy Elohim, shall have given all ye rest from all your enemies round about in the land which YHVH, thy Elohim, giveth thee for an inheritance, to possess it.

7. And therefore, I say unto thee: That when thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens, thou shalt write it down that ye not forget it.

8. And the king who shall have pity on Amalek, or upon his memory or upon his seed: behold, I will not coddle him, and I will cut him off from amongst his people.

9. And Joshua wrote all these things in the book, and he instructed the children of Israel respecting all these matters.

---
chapter: Chapter 2

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/2

1. And it came to pass that in the darkness of the night of the first Passover, that YHVH did go forth in the midst of Egypt,

2. And death fell upon all the first born of all the Egyptians, from the first born of the humans to the first born of the beasts:

3. And so it was that Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians to find their firstborn dead,

4. And so it was that there was a great cry throughout all of Egypt that night, for there was not a house without the blood of the lamb in which there was not dead to be found.

5. And all the Egyptians that did see this evil which did come suddenly upon them did weep that night, each one for their sons and their daughters, being the first born.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that Pharaoh did seek Moses and Aaron and Joshua in their houses, and there they did find them, eating and drinking, and rejoicing with all Israel.

7. And Pharaoh did say unto Moses: Is this the reward for the good which I have done to thee, to let thy people sojourn in my land?

8. And Moses said unto Pharaoh: Surely did not YHVH bring these ten plagues upon Egypt; 

9. Did any evil accrue to thee from any of them? did not one of them affect thee before this night?

10. And Moses said further: Although thou art the first born to thy mother, thou shalt not die, and no evil shall reach thee in the midst of Egypt.

11. And Pharaoh, even the very king of Egypt, prayed to Moses, saying: Rise up and take your brethren, 

12. All the children of Israel who are in the land, with their sheep and oxen, and all belonging to them, 

13. They shall leave nothing remaining, only pray for me to YHVH, your Elohim.

14. And Moses said unto Pharaoh: Behold though thou art the first born of thy mother, yet fear not, for thou shall not die this night, 

15. For YHVH has commanded that thou shalt live, in order to show thee His great might and strong stretched out arm.

16. ¶ And it came to pass that Pharaoh did order the children of Israel to be sent away, and all the Egyptians strengthened themselves to send them,

17. For they said: We are all to die, should Israel not be sent out to worship their Elohim.

18. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of Israel asked of the Egyptians, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and garments, 

19. And so it was that the children of Israel did strip the Egyptians of their precious things.

20. And the Egyptians did send the Israelites forth, with great riches, sheep and oxen and precious things, giving them anything they desired to see them leave their land.

21. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses hastened and rose up and brought up from the sepulture the body of Joseph and took it with him.

---
chapter: Chapter 3

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/3

1. And it came to pass that after their days of mourning, that Pharaoh did gather up many men to chase after Israel to make them return to Egypt, 

2. For the people of that land had repented that they had sent the Israelites away from their servitude.

3. For Pharaoh did say: Surely Moses and Aaron spoke to me, saying: We shall travel but three days journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to YHVH our Elohim;

4. Now, therefore, let us rise up early in the morning and cause them to return, 

5. And it shall be that if they return with us to Egypt, to their masters, then shall we know that there is faith in them;

6. But if they will not return, then shall we fight with them, that they should return unto servitude by our great power and a strong hand.

7. And Pharaoh did then rise up in the morning with his mighty army, and they went forth from Egypt on that day, and came to the place where the children of Israel were gathered.

8. ¶ And it came to pass that the Egyptians saw and beheld Moses and Aaron and Joshua and all the children of Israel were sitting, eating and drinking, and celebrating at the feast of YHVH.

9. And when Pharaoh, king of Egypt, saw that the children of Israel did not hearken to him, and that they appeared not to return to Egypt, he did command his people to make war with Israel.

10. And it came to pass that YHVH did strengthened the hearts of the children of Israel over the Egyptians, 

11. And Joshua, son of Nun, servant of Moses did lead Israel that a sore battle was upon the Egyptians.

12. And so it was that all the Egyptians fled from before the children of Israel, for many of them perished by the hand of Israel.

13. ¶ And it came to pass that Pharaoh called out before his men, saying: The children of Israel have fled, and will no more return to Egypt, and who shall do our burdens?

14. And in the army of Pharaoh, said each man unto his brother: What is this which we have done, that we have sent Israel from our servitude?

15. And so it was that the hearts of the army of Pharaoh was strengthened against YHVH, and they did forget the plagues in their vanities.

---
chapter: Chapter 4

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/4

1. And it came to pass that Pharaoh did rise up and command his armies to again pursue the children of Israel, and they did reach them encamping about the Red Sea.

2. And the children of Israel did lift up their eyes, and they did behold all the Egyptians pursuing them, and the children of Israel, being sore afraid, did cry out unto Moses.

3. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of Israel were divided, for they were sore afraid of the Egyptians knowing not what to do; and Moses did speak unto them.

4. And so it was that there were some that feared Egypt even unto the casting of themselves into the sea, 

5. For they were sore afraid of the Egyptians and feared what would become of them should they return into bondage, that they should drown before they would return to that bondage.

6. And there were those that resolved to go back to Egypt with the Egyptians and plead for mercy in their servitude.

7. And there were those that resolved to confound the Egyptians, that they might sneak away from them and escape.

8. And there were those that resolved to go with Joshua, son of Nun, to meet the Egyptians to fight with them that they be not taken, for these would rather die than return to their bondage.

9. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses spoke, saying unto them: Fear not, stand still and see the salvation of YHVH which He will show unto thee this day;

10. For as you have seen the Egyptians this day, so shall you see them no more forever.

11. Yea, stand in your places, for YHVH will fight for us, and ye shall remain silent; fear not, only call unto YHVH that He may save us from out of their hands.

12. ¶ And it came to pass that after this, Moses did rise up from amidst the people, and he prayed unto YHVH, saying: O YHVH, Elohim over the whole of the earth:

13. Here now are thy people whom Thou didst bring forth from Egypt, and let not the Egyptians boast that power and might are theirs!

14. And it came to pass that YHVH did speak unto Moses, saying: Speak now unto the children of Israel that they shall proceed,

15. And stretch out thy rod that thou did bless in my name upon the sea to divide it, even as I have shown thee, and the children of Israel shall pass through it.

16. And it came to pass that the malak of Ha’Elohim, who had gone before the Israelites, withdrew, moving behind them; 

17. And so it was that the column of mist moved also from the front of the Israelites and stood behind them;

18. So it did come between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; 

19. The column of mist was there when darkness came, and it lit up the night that neither side came near the other all night long.

20. And it came to pass that Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, that all night YHVH pushed back the sea with a strong east wind and turned that sea into dry ground; 

21. And so it was that the water did divide by the very word of YHVH that was spoken by the mouth of His servant, Moses.

22. And it came to pass that even as Moses did lift up his rod upon the sea and instruct it, that the waters of the sea were divided into two parts;

23. And the children of Israel did pass through it on foot, taking with them all their goods and belongings.

24. And so it was that YHVH did show unto the children of Israel His wonders in Egypt and in the sea by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

25. ¶ And it came to pass that when the children of Israel entered the sea, the cloud of YHVH did go with them, 

26. And the Egyptians did see them pass through the waters on dry ground.

27. And it came to pass that Pharaoh did lead his armies against them, and did chase after them,

28. And the waters of the sea fell upon the Egyptians, and they all sank in the water, and not one man was left.

29. And it came to pass that the war that was between the elohim of the Pharaoh of Egypt, and YHVH, the Elohim of Israel, came to an end; and YHVH was undefeated.

30. And so it was that not one hair was taken from the heads of the people of Israel, for such is the strength and might of YHVH. 

31. Then sang the children of Israel their song unto YHVH, on the day that YHVH caused the Egyptians to fall before them.

32. And it came to pass that Moses did write these things in a book. 

---
chapter: Chapter 5

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/5

1. And it came to pass that in the wilderness of Sin the children of Israel did camp in Rephidim.

2. And so it was that when the children of Israel were in Rephidim that Amalek the son of Eliphaz, a son of Esau, came to fight with Israel.

3. And he did bring with him many strong men, and magicians and sorcerers, and these did prepare for battle with Israel:

4. For the people of Amalek did fear Israel, and for this cause did they desire not to share their waters nor to let them travel through their lands;

5. Therefore, the people of Amalek, to hide their white (fair) skin from the black (darker) skins of the children of Israel which had come from out of Egypt, they did cover themselves in ash that they should not be known unto them.

6. And these came into the outskirts of the camps of Israel, seeking those that were not defended, attacking them unto death, even smiting their women and their children.

7. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did bring Moses unto Him, saying: Behold, the people of Amalek have attacked Israel, my children;

8. Therefore, send forth thy servant, Joshua, son of Nun, to gather up men to tear down the people of Amalek.

9. And thus it was that Moses said unto Joshua: Choose us out men, and go out and fight with Amalek; 

10. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of Ha’Elohim in mine hand.

11. ¶ And it came to pass that the following day, Joshua did as Moses had said unto him and took the men of Israel and fought with Amalek;

12. And it came to pass that Moses, and Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill to see the battle;

13. And there, when Moses held up his hand, so it was that Israel prevailed; yet when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.

14. ¶ And it came to pass that when the hands of Moses grew heavy, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat thereon;

15. And Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun.

16. And it came to pass that Joshua fought against Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.

17. And it came to pass that the battle with the Amorites was very sore upon the children of Israel.

18. And so it was that they did carry on a great and severe battle against Israel.

19. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did deliver Amalek and his people into the hands of the children of Israel, and into the hand of Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Moses.

20. And so it was that the children of Israel smote Amalek and his people by the edge of the sword, but the battle was very sore upon the children of Israel;

21. Yet the war that was between the elohim of the people of Amalek, and YHVH, the Elohim of Israel, had come to an end, and YHVH was undefeated.

22. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did write these things in a book.

---
chapter: Chapter 6

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/6

1. And it came to pass that Moses and Zipporah, his wife, did go up into the Mount of Strength, and there did YHVH give unto Israel His Torah;

2. And Joshua, the son of Nun did go with them, yet not up unto YHVH, our Elohim.

3. ¶ And it came to pass that Aaron was greatly afraid of the people, and they did bring him gold and he did put it into the fire,

4. And out of the fire came a calf for the people to worship, for they did forget YHVH, their Elohim, and Moses, and their covenant unto YHVH.

5. And it came to pass that YHVH did say to Moses, before he did come down from the mount:

6. Get thee down, for thy people whom thou didst bring forth from Egypt have corrupted themselves.

7. And so it was that when Moses did approach the camp, he saw the calf which had been made, and the anger of Moses was kindled, and he did break the tablets that YHVH had given him.

8. And Moses took the calf and burned it with fire, and ground it till it became fine dust, and strewed it upon the water and gave it to the Israelites to drink that a curse should not be upon them.

9. And there many of the people died by the sword, all they that were cursed by the dust of the calf, for YHVH was not in them.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that the war that was between that calf that would be the elohim of the children of Jacob, and YHVH, the Elohim of Israel, had come to an end, and YHVH was undefeated.

11. And so it was that Moses did say to the people: I will go up to YHVH that I may make an atonement for your sins, for that sin which ye have sinned before YHVH.

---
chapter: Chapter 7

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/7

1. And it came to pass that Moses went before YHVH on behalf of the children of Israel, 

2. And YHVH, our Elohim, did hearkened to the prayers of Moses, and YHVH was appeased of him for Israel.

3. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH spoke unto Moses, telling him to hew two stone tablets and to bring them up to the mount that YHVH, our Elohim, should write again upon them.

4. And after Moses hewed the two tablets and went up unto the Mount, YHVH did write His Torah upon the tablets:

5. And so it was that YHVH did instruct Moses in His statutes and judgments to impart to Israel.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH commanded Moses that the children of Israel should make a sanctuary for YHVH, that His name might rest therein,

7. And YHVH did show unto Moses the very likeness of the sanctuary and the likeness of all its vessels.

8. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses came unto the children of Israel and spoke unto them all the words of YHVH, 

9. And he did teach us the Torah, and the statutes, and the judgments which YHVH, our Elohim, had taught them.

10. And it came to pass that the children of Israel rejoiced greatly at all that YHVH had spoken unto them through His servant, Moses,

11. And they said: All that YHVH hath spoken we will do.

12. And the people rose as one and made generous offerings to the sanctuary of YHVH, 

13. ach one brought their offering for the work of the sanctuary, and for all its service.

14. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did speak unto Moses, that he should send twelve men from the children of Israel, one man to a tribe, to go and explore the land of promise.

15. And so it was that Moses did send the twelve men, and they came to the land to search and examine it, and Joshua, the son of Nun, did go before them.

16. ¶ And it came to pass that they did explore the land for forty days and forty nights, and at the end of forty days came they again to Moses,

17. And so it was that they did bring him word as it was in their hearts.

18. ¶ And it came to pass that ten of the men brought up an evil report, saying: It is better for us to return to Egypt than to go to such a land.

19. And so it was that Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, gave a good report from their hearts, saying: The land is exceedingly good;

20. Yeah, and if YHVH delight in us, then shall He bring us to this land and give it to us, for it is a land flowing with milk and honey.

21. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of Israel would not hearken to Joshua and Caleb, but they did hearken unto the words of the ten men who had given up an evil report from the fear in their hearts.

22. And YHVH did heard their murmurings and was wroth, saying: 

23. Surely not one man of this wicked generation shall see the land from twenty years old and upward excepting Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.

24. Surely this is a wicked generation and shall perish in this wilderness, and their children shall come to the land, and they shall possess it;

25. So it was that the anger of YHVH was kindled against the children of Israel, and they were made to wander in the wilderness for forty years, until the end of that wicked generation.

26. ¶ And it came to pass that after this Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men and they rose up against Moses with men from congregation of great renown;

27. And they gathered themselves together against Moses and said unto him: 

28. Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and YHVH is among us.

29. And after this manner did they rise up and contend with Moses and the whole congregation.

30. And so it was that YHVH did grow angry with them, and in His wrath did the earth open its mouth, and swallowed them up, they and all that did belong to them, and all the men that did follow after Korah.

31. And it came to pass that the war that was between that Korath of the children of Jacob, and YHVH, the Elohim of Israel, had come to an end, and YHVH was again undefeated.

---
chapter: Chapter 8

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/8

1. And it came to pass that Miriam died in the desert of Tzin and was buried there, and Israel mourned her.

2. ¶ And it came to pass that there was no water for the congregation; therefore, they did gather themselves together in their anger.

3. And so it was that Israel did chide with Moses, saying: Would Ha’Elohim that we had died when our brethren died before YHVH!

4. And why have you brought up the congregation of YHVH unto this desolation, that we and our flocks should die here?

5. And why for did you bring us from out of Egypt unto this evil place? It is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses and Aaron went from the assembly into the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and there they did fall upon their faces.

7. And so it was that the glory of YHVH did appear unto them; and YHVH did speak unto Moses, saying:

8. Take thy rod up and gather the assembly together, thou and Aaron, thy brother, and speak unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water:

9. Do this and thou shalt bring forth unto them water from out of that rock; so thou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink.

10. And so it was that the rod that had been created in the twilight (Hebrew: nesheph, from nashaph, “to blow”) in that same manner as the coats of skin that were made and given unto our first parents, even Adam and Eve;

11. And these were delivered them as they did come out from that garden:

12. And Adam did pass them down and these did pass through the hand of Enoch, and Noah, until they did come into the hands of Joseph who was sold into Egypt. 

13. And so it was that when the father of Zipporah, Jethro, who was a friend of Ha’Elohim, did see the symbols that were carved upon the staff of Moses, he did say:

14. This one shall redeem Israel from Egypt.

15. And so it was that he rejoiced that he did give his daughter unto Moses to wife, for she was a High Priestess unto YHVH, our Elohim. 

16. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did take the rod of power from before YHVH even as He had instructed him.

17. And so it was that Moses and Aaron stood before the congregation they did gather together before the rock. 

18. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did say unto them: Hear now, ye rebels! Must we fetch you water out of this rock?

19. And so it was that Moses did lift up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice; and the water came out abundantly; and the congregation drank, and their beasts also.

20. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did speak unto Moses and Aaron, saying:

21. Because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them.

22. ¶ And it came to pass that the war that was in the hearts of the children of Jacob, and YHVH, the Elohim of Israel, had come to an end, and YHVH was once again undefeated.

23. And this was the water of Meribah because the children of Israel strove with YHVH, and He did show unto them of his holiness.

---
chapter: Chapter 9

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/9

1. And it came to pass that YHVH did speak unto Moses, saying: Provoke not the children of Esau, for I will not give unto you of anything belonging to them;

2. Therefore, fight not against the children of Esau your brethren, for nothing in their land belongs to you:

3. But ye might buy food of them for money and eat it, and you might buy water of them for money and drink it.

4. And so it was that the children of Israel did even according to the word of YHVH, our Elohim.

5. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did send messengers unto the king of Edom, saying:

6. Thus says thy brother Jacob: Let me pass I pray thee through thy land, we will not pass through field or vineyard, we will not drink the water of the well; we will walk in the road belonging to the king.

7. And so it was that Edom said to him: Thou shalt not pass through my country, and Edom went forth to meet the children of Israel with a mighty people.

8. And the children of Esau refused to let the children of Israel pass through their land.

9. And so it was that the Israelites removed from them and fought not against them,

10. For before this YHVH had commanded the children of Israel, saying: You shall not fight against the children of Esau;

11. Therefore, the Israelites removed from them and did not fight against them.

12. And so it was that the children of Israel departed from before their faces, and YHVH was once more undefeated.

---
chapter: Chapter 10

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/10

1. And it came to pass that YHVH did peak unto Moses saying: Take Aaron, thy brother, and Eleazar, his son, and bring them up unto Mount Hor,

2. And there thou shall strip Aaron of his garments, and then thou shall put them upon Eleazar, his son.

3. And so it was that Moses did as YHVH did instruct them, and they did go up into the mount in the sight of all the congregation.

4. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did strip Aaron of his garments and did put them upon Eleazar, his son.

5. And so it was that Aaron did die there in the top of the mount; and Moses and Eleazar came alone down from the mount.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they did mourn for thirty days, even all the house of Israel.

7. ¶ And it came to pass that the king of the Canaanites to the south did hear by the way of his spies that the Israelites had come.

8. And so it was that he did gather his armies to fight against the Israelites.

9. And it came to pass that the children of Israel were sore afraid, for he had a large and mighty army,

10. And so it was that the children of Israel did turn back for three days, so great was their fear of him.

11. ¶ And it came to pass that when Joshua, the son of Nun, saw that the children of Israel would not turn back, he grew angry for the sake of YHVH.

12. And so it was that Joshua did rise up and face Israel, and forced them to turn back to their place, that they should be even where YHVH did send them.

13. ¶ And it came to pass that when they did return, the king of the Canaanites was still gathering his troops to do battle against Israel.

14. And so it was that Joshua went before YHVH, and there he vowed a vow, saying: If thou wilt deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities.

15. And it came to pass that Ha’Elohim did hear the voice of Joshua, servant of Moses, 

16. And YHVH did deliver the Canaanites into our hand, and YHVH, our Elohim, did utterly destroy them and their cities.

17. And so it was that YHVH, our Elohim, did slay their elohim, and all in that land that would not follow El Elyon; and YHVH was once more undefeated.

---
chapter: Chapter 11

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/11

1. And it came to pass that the children of Israel continued on their journeyed and they did pitch their tents to find rest at Vaheb by the Red Sea,

2. And the valley did stretch out unto a roaring stream, even as the slopes of the rushing water did stretch out unto Ar, and did lie along the border of Moab.

3. ¶ And it came to pass that Israel did journey from Vaheb by the Red Sea and the valley of the Arnon,

4. Even the very slopes of the valley that did stretch out to sit in Ar that doeth lie along the border of the land belonging to the descendants of Lot.

5. And there did the people speak up against Ha’Elohim and against Moses.

6. And they did speak as such: Ye have brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness! 

7. For here there is no bread; nor is there any water; and we do hate that which we have found to eat!

8. And so it was that Ha’Elohim heard Israel in their moaning and thus YHVH, our Elohim, was sore in His wrath against them.

9. And looking out into the land, YHVH did round up the fiery serpents of that place and did set them against Israel, and they did bite the people.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that after many did perish in Israel, the people came to Moses and said: We have sinned!

11. For we have spoken against Ha’Elohim and against thee; pray unto YHVH, our Elohim, that He take away the serpents from us!

12. And so did Moses go and make an atonement for the people of Israel.

13. ¶ And it came to pass that the angel of YHVH came to Joshua and Moses, saying: Make thee a serpent of nechosheth and set it upon a pole;

14. And it shall come to pass that everyone that is bitten, when they looketh upon it, they shall live;

15. But they who shall not look, these shall parish, and this shall be as a sign unto this people the easiness of the ways of YHVH, should they hear and heed the Voice.

16. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses made a serpent of nechosheth and put it upon a pole;

17. And so it was that if a serpent had bitten one of Israel, when they did look upon the serpent of nechosheth, they lived;

18. Yet if they would not look, for the simpleness of the task, then they were taken to the grave.

19. ¶ And it came to pass that the angel of YHVH came again unto Joshua and Moses saying: 

20. Behold this Nehushtan, the serpent of nechosheth set it upon this pole, for it is a sign of things to come:

21. For in that day that the son of man shall come in the flesh, he shall be seen as a fiery serpent sent to poison Israel, for he shall cast out demons; therefore they shall say that he is one of them.

22. And they shall take him, and they shall lift him upon a pole, and they shall kill him;

23. Yet the son of man is the master of life and therefore death is not subject unto him!

24. Therefore, all they that shall have faith and look upon him shall live, 

25. For there is no other name given here upon the earth nor above in the heavens whereby mankind can be saved.

26. And for this cause, ye shall teach unto this people that they are to take upon themselves the Name (HaShem), and this that they might live. 

27. And so it was that YHVH, our Elohim, did cure Israel of the poison of those fiery serpents and they that did rebel against Him; and YHVH was again undefeated.

---
chapter: Chapter 12

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/12

1. And it came to pass that when Israel did abide in Shittim, the people began to commit whoredoms with the priestesses that were kept in the temple of Baal Peor;

2. And so it was that these women did call unto them, until the seed of Jacob did desire to be with them;

3. ¶ And it was then that the seed of Jacob did offer unto Baal Peor sacrifices; and the people did eat and bowed down to their elohim and enter into fornication.

4. And the temple of Baal of Peor was kept by Balaam, son of Bosor, a high priest of Balak; 

5. For when Balaam, son of Beor would not cure Israel, for he was a prophet of YHVH, then did Balak command his high priest to bring the people of Israel into sin against YHVH:

6. And so it was that the seed of Jacob did join themselves unto Baal of Peor; and the anger of YHVH was kindled against all of Israel.

7. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did say unto Moses: This people hath brought this plague amongst them; 

8. Therefore, hang them up before against the sun, that my fierce anger be turned away from them.

9. And Moses gathered up the judges of Israel, saying: Find ye every man that were joined unto Baal of Peor and gather them up and cast them to the side (quarantine them).

10. ¶ And it came to pass that one of the children of Israel came and brought unto his brethren a priestess of Baal of Peor against her will in the sight of Moses and all the congregation of the children of Israel.

11. And so it was that when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the High Priest, saw him and heard her weeping, he rose up from among the congregation and took a spear in his hand;

12. And he went after the son of Jacob into the tent and thrust the son of Jacob through, and the woman was set free, for she did come up into the camp unwillingly.

13. ¶ And it came to pass that because of the mercy of Phinehas, the plague was stayed from the children of Israel; 

14. But unto the seed of Jacob, these were not spared; and those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousand.

15. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH came unto Moses, saying: Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the Priest, 

16. He hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, for he was zealous for my sake; therefore, I consume not the children of Israel in my jealousy.

17. And I do give unto him my covenant of peace; and he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenant of an everlasting priesthood, 

18. And this because he was zealous for his Elohim and made an atonement for the children of Israel.

19. ¶ Let it be known that the name of the Israelite that was slain was Zimri, the son of Salu, a noble one of a chief house among the Simeonites.

20. And so it was that the name of the Midian woman was Kozbi, and she was the daughter of Tzur; and he was one of the chief councilors of Balak, king over Midian.

---
chapter: Chapter 13

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/13

1. And it came to pass that YHVH spoke unto Moses, saying: Vex the Midianites and smite them; for they did seek to curse you with my prophet, Balaam.

2. And when my servant would not condemn my people, but did bless Israel with my blessing, then did they seek to trap you with their wiles, wherewith they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, 

3. And in the matter of Kozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, which was sent against you against her will, and for the sake of Baal of Peor.

4. And have I not told you: Thou shalt not prostitute thy daughter, to cause her to be a harlot, lest the land fall to fornication, and the land become full of wickedness.

5. And now you see that the people of Midian did sell their daughters unto their elohim, and some of these that have made the covenant with me have gone a whoring after their foreign elohim.

6. And these shall die by that plague, and I shall slay their elohim that my Israel, they that do keep the covenant, be spared. 

7. Wherefore, ye shall avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites; afterward you shall free their women and their children that they be gathered unto my people.

8. ¶ And then did it come to pass that Moses did speak unto the people, saying: Strengthen some of your men that they shall go against the Midianites and execute the vengeance of YHVH upon them.

9. And so it was that Moses did send them and Joshua did lead them into the battle, one thousand of the men from every tribe.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the Priest, did march forth with the holy vessels of the sanctuary and men with trumpets.

11. And so it was that they did war against the Midianites as YHVH had commanded Moses; and they slew all the males.

12. ¶ And it came to pass that they did slay Balak, the king of Midian and his five nobles; Balaam also, the son of Besor, High Priest of Baal of Peor they did slay with the sword.

13. And so it was that YHVH, our Elohim, did slay Baal of Peor for his wickedness in the land, for he did teach unto them to sell their children that they might get gain. 

14. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of Israel did free all the women of Midian, and their little ones, and took for their spoils all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods.

15. And they did burn all their cities wherein they dwelt with fire.

16. ¶ And it came to pass that they did take all the spoil and all the prey, and they brought the women and their children unto Moses and Eleazar, the High Priest.

17. And so it was that Moses, and Eleazar, the High Priest, and all the Elders of the congregation went forth to meet them without the camp.

18. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses said unto them: Have ye saved all the women alive?

19. And so it was that, seeing that they had saved the women and the children alive, he spoke unto them again, saying:

20. Behold, all the women and children, ye shall keep them alive; 

21. And they shall abide without the camp seven days, and all they among you that hath killed any person or hath touched any of the slain; 

22. Purify both yourselves and your captives on the third day and on the seventh day.

23. Yea, and purify all your raiment, and all that is made of skins, and all work of the hair goats, and all things made of wood.

24. ¶ And it came to pass that Eleazar, the High Priest, did say unto the men of war which went to the battle:

25. This is the ordinance of the Torah of which YHVH, our Elohim, did teach unto Moses.

26. Only the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead; yea, everything that may abide the fire, ye shall make it go through the fire, and it shall be clean; 

27. Nevertheless, it shall be purified with the water of separation; and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water.

28. And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and then ye shall be clean; and afterward ye shall come into the camp.

29. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses and Eleazar, the High Priest, did take the gold and they did bring it into the tabernacle of the congregation for a memorial for the children of Israel before YHVH, our Elohim.

30. And it came to pass that the war that was between Baal Peor, the elohim of Balak and Balaam, and YHVH, the Elohim of Israel, came to an end; and YHVH was undefeated.

---
chapter: Chapter 14

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/14

1. And it came to pass that the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle; and when they saw the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for cattle,

2. And so it was that the children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spoke unto Moses, and to Eleazar, the priest, and unto the princes of the congregation, saying:

3. Behold, Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon,

4. Even the country which YHVH did smite before the congregation of Israel, is a land for cattle; and thy servants have cattle;

5. Therefore, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto thy servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben: Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?

7. And why then should you discourage the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which YHVH hath given for an inheritance?

8. Is this the fear of your fathers when I sent them over to see the land?

9. For when they went up into the valley of Eshcol and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which YHVH, our Elohim had given them.

10. And so it was that the anger of YHVH was kindled the same time, and he swore, saying:

11. Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I gave unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob because they have not wholly followed me,

12. Save Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, the Kenezite, and Joshua, the son of Nun; for they have wholly followed YHVH.

13. And the wrath of YHVH was kindled against Israel, and thus He did make them wander in the wilderness forty years until all the generation that had done evil in the sight of YHVH was consumed.

14. And now behold, ye are risen up in the stead of your fathers, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of YHVH toward Israel.

15. For if ye turn away from after our Elohim, YHVH will yet again leave you in the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.

16. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of Reuben and the children of Gad did come near unto him and said: We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle and cities for our little ones;

17. But we ourselves will go ready armed before the children of Israel until we have brought them unto their place; 

18. And our little ones shall dwell in the fenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.

19. And we will not return unto our houses until the children of Israel have inherited everyone their inheritance;

20. For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan or forward because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordan eastward.

21. ¶ And so it was that Moses said unto them: If ye will do this thing, if ye will go armed before YHVH to war,

22. And will go all of you armed over Jordan before YHVH until He hath driven out His enemies from before Him,

23. And the land be subdued before YHVH, our Elohim, then afterward ye shall return and be guiltless before YHVH and before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before YHVH.

24. But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against YHVH; and be sure your sin will find you out.

25. Wherefore, build ye up cities for your little ones and folds for your sheep; and do that which hath proceeded out of your mouth.

26. ¶ And it came to pass that the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spoke unto Moses, saying: Thy servants will do even as my lord hath spoken.

27. Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle shall be there in the cities of Gilead;

28. But thy servants will pass over, every man armed for war, before YHVH to battle, even as my lord hath said.

29. ¶ And so it was that Moses instructed Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel concerning them;

30. And Moses spoke unto them, saying: If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, every man armed to battle before the Lord, and the land shall be subdued before you, then ye shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession;

31. But if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.

32. ¶ And it came to pass that all of the children of Gad and all of the children of Reuben answered, saying: As YHVH, our Elohim, hath said unto thy servants, this will we do.

33. We will pass over, armed before YHVH, into the land of Canaan, that the possession of our inheritance on this side Jordan may be ours.

34. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did give unto them, even to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and unto half the tribe of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og, king of Bashan, the land with the cities thereof in the coasts, even the cities of the country round about.

---
chapter: Chapter 15

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/15

1. And it came to pass that YHVH came unto Moses, saying: Number the heads of the whole congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward,

2. And from these, ye shall send forth, that they shall be your army.

3. And so it was that Moses and Eleazar, the High Priest, did number the children of Israel after their families.

4. And the number of all Israel was seven hundred thousand, seven hundred and thirty:

5. ¶ And so it was that of the children of Levi, from one month old and upward, there was not a man numbered for these were the Priests in the wilderness.

6. For YHVH did say unto them: Ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I swore to make you dwell therein, save Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua, the son of Nun.

7. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did say unto Moses: Behold thy days are approaching to an end,

8. Take now Joshua, the son of Nun, thy servant and place him in the tabernacle, and I will command him, and Moses did even as YHVH, our Elohim had said.

9. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did appear in the tabernacle in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood at the entrance of the tabernacle.

10. And YHVH, our Elohim, did instruct Joshua, the son of Nun, and did say unto him: 

11. Be strong and courageous, for thou shalt bring the children of Israel to the land which I swore to give them, and I will be with thee.

12. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses said unto Joshua: 

13. Be strong and courageous, for thou wilt make the children of Israel to inherit the land, and YHVH, our Elohim, shall be with thee;

14. YHVH shall neither leave thee, nor forsake thee; therefore, be neither afraid nor faint of heart.

15. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did call to all the children of Israel and said unto them: 

16. Ye have seen all the good which YHVH, our Elohim, hath done for you in the wilderness;

17. Therefore, observe now all the words of this Torah, and walk in the ways of YHVH, our Elohim.

---
chapter: Chapter 16

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/16

1. And it came to pass that YHVH spoke again unto Moses, saying: Behold, thou shalt leave this people,

2. And it shall come to pass that these people will rise up in adultery and go a whoring after the elohim of the strangers of the land, and will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with them.

3. And then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them.

4. And they shall be devoured, and many evils and troubles shall befall them, so that they will say in that day: 

5. Are not these evils come upon us because our Elohim is not among us?

6. ¶ And so it shall be that I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evils which they shall have wrought, in that they are turned unto the elohim of man.

7. Now, therefore, write ye this song for you and teach it to the children of Israel; put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.

8. For when I shall have brought them into the land which I swore unto their fathers, that floweth with milk and honey, 

9. And they shall have eaten and filled themselves and waxen fat, then will they turn unto other elohim, and serve them, and provoke me, and break my covenant.

10. ¶ And it shall come to pass, the when many evils and troubles are befallen them, that this song shall testify against them as a witness;

11. For it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed;

12. For I know their imagination which they go about, even now, before I have brought them into the land which I swore.

---
chapter: Chapter 17

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/17

1. And it came to pass that Moses sang in prophecy, being filled with the breath of YHVH, singing:

2. ¶ Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak; || and hear, O earth, || the words of my mouth.

3. My teachings shall fall upon Israel || even as the rain; || my speech shall distill as the dew, || as the gentle rain upon the tender herb, || and as the showers upon the grass,

4. Because I will publish the name of YHVH; || ascribe ye greatness unto our Elohim.

5. YHVH is our Rock; || His work is perfection; || for all His ways are judgment; || El Emet is His name, || and He is without iniquity, || just and right is He.

6. They who have corrupted themselves; || their spot is not the spot of His children; || they are a perverse and wicked generation.

7. Do ye thus requite YHVH, || O foolish people and unwise? || Is not He El Abba that hath bought thee? || Hath he not made thee || and established thee?

8. Remember the days of old; || consider the years of many generations; || ask thy father, and he will show thee; || thy elders, and they will tell thee.

9. When El Elyon did divide to the nations their inheritance, || when He separated the sons of Adam, || He set the bounds of the people || according to the number of the children of Israel.

10. For the portion of YHVH is His people; || Jacob is the lot of His inheritance.

11. He found him in a desert land || and in the waste howling wilderness; || He led him about; || He instructed him; || He kept him as the apple of His eye.

12. As an eagle stirreth up her nest, || fluttereth over her young, || spreadeth abroad her wings, || taketh them, beareth them on her wings; || so YHVH alone did lead him, || and there was no strange elohim with him.

13. YHVH took Jacob || to ride on the high places of the earth, || that he might eat the increase of the fields; || and He made him to suck honey out of the mountains || and oil out of stones of flint.

14. Butter of the cattle, || and milk of the sheep, || with fat of the lambs, || and strong rams and goats: || with the fat of kidneys of wheat; || and thou didst drink the pure blood of the grape.

15. But Yeshurun waxed fat and kicked; || thou art waxen fat; || thou art grown thick; || thou art covered with fatness; || then he forsook Ha’Elohim which made them || and lightly esteemed the Rock of our salvation.

16. And Israel did provoke YHVH to jealousy with strange gods; || with abominations provoked they Him to anger.

17. They sacrificed unto devils, not to Elohim: || to gods whom they knew not, || to new gods that came up fresh, || whom your fathers feared not.

18. Of the Rock that begat thee || thou art unmindful || and hast forgotten Elohim || that did form thee.

19. And when YHVH saw it, || He abhorred them || because of the provoking || of His sons, and of His daughters.

20. And YHVH said: || I will hide my face from them; || I will see what their end shall be; || for they are a very perverse generation, || children in whom there is no faith.

21. They have moved me to jealousy || with that which is not Ha’Elohim; || they have provoked me to anger || with their vanities;

22. And I will move them to jealousy || with those which are not a people; || I will provoke them to anger || with a foolish nation.

23. For a fire is kindled in my nostrils, || and shall burn unto the lowest depths of Sheol, || and shall consume the earth with her increase, || and set on fire the foundations of the mountains.

24. I will heap mischief upon them; || I will spend mine arrows upon them.

25. They shall be burnt with hunger || and devoured with burning heat || and with bitter destruction; 

26. I will also send the teeth of beasts upon them, || with the poison of serpents of the dust.

27. The sword without || and terror within || shall destroy both the young man and the virgin, || the suckling also with the man of gray hairs.

28. I said I would scatter them into corners; || I would make the remembrance || of them to cease from among men || were it not that I feared the wrath of the enemy,

29. Lest their adversaries should behave themselves strangely || and lest they should say: || Our hand is high, || and YHVH hath not done all this!

30. For they are a nation void of counsel; || neither is there any understanding in them.

31. O, that they were wise, || that they understood this, || that they would consider their latter end!

32. How should one chase a thousand || and two put ten thousand to flight, || except their Rock had sold them, || and YHVH had shut them up?

33. For their rock is not as our Rock, || even our enemies themselves being judges.

34. For their vine is of the vine of Sodom || and of the fields of Gomorrah; || their grapes are grapes of gall, || their clusters are bitter;

35. Their wine is the poison of dragons || and the cruel venom of asps.

36. Is not this laid up in store with me || and sealed up among my treasures?

37. To me belongeth vengeance and recompense; || their foot shall slide in due time; || for the day of their calamity is at hand, || and the things that shall come upon them come quickly.

38. For YHVH shall judge His people, || and comfort Himself for His servants || when he seeth that their power is gone || and there is none shut up or left.

39. And YHVH shall say: || Where are their elohim, || their rock in whom they trusted, || which did eat the fat of their sacrifices || and drank the wine of their drink offerings?

40. Let them rise up, || and help you, || and be your protection.

41. See now that I, even I, am He; || and there is no elohim unto me; || I am the bringer of death, || and I am the giver of life; || I wound, and I heal; || and there is no one who can deliver out of my hand.

42. For I lift up my hand to the heavens and say: || I live forever!

43. I teach diligently with my glittering chereb || and mine hand take hold in judgment, || I will render vengeance to mine enemies || and will reward them that hate me.

44. I will make mine arrows drunk with blood; || and my sword shall devour flesh, || and that with the blood of the slain || and of the captives, || from the beginning of revenges || upon the enemy.

45. Rejoice, O ye nations, with his people; || for he will avenge the blood of his servants, || and will render vengeance to his adversaries, || and will be merciful unto his land and to his people.

46. ¶ And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua, the son of Nun.

---
chapter: Chapter 18

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/18

1. And it came to pass that the angel of YHVH did come unto Moses, saying: Behold, thy days approach that thou must leave thy people;

2. Therefore, call Joshua and present yourselves in the tabernacle of the congregation, that I may give him a charge.

3. And it came to pass that Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves in the tabernacle of the congregation.

4. And the angel of YHVH did appear in the tabernacle, and YHVH did appear in a pillar of cloud; and the pillar of the cloud stood over the door of the tabernacle.

5. And YHVH gave Joshua, the son of Nun, a charge, saying: Be strong and of good courage;

6. For thou shalt bring the children of Israel into the land which I swore unto them; and I will be with thee.

7. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses took that Torah which he had written and made twelve scrolls of it, each with the Torah, and with the Covenant, and with a history for each of the tribes.

8. And so it was that Moses did deliver these unto the Priests and the Priestesses, even the sons and daughters of Levi.

9. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses commanded the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of YHVH, saying:

10. Take these, the Torah, and the Covenant, and the tellings of the children of our father, Jacob, and distribute them, one to each of the tribes that they might have it and use it to teach it unto their peoples. 

11. And take this, the book of the Torah, and put it in the side of the ark of the covenant of YHVH, our Elohim, that it may be there for a witness against thee.

12. For I know thy rebellion and thy stiff neck; behold, while I am yet alive with you this day, ye have been rebellious against YHVH.

13. And how much more after my death?

14. ¶ And so it was that Moses took that first Torah scroll from which the Torah was taken to give unto each tribe, and he gave it unto Eleazar, the High Priest,

15. And this he did place in the ark of the covenant of YHVH, with the tablets;

16. And there were two tablets, one for to represent the covenant of YHVH with Israel, and the other of the covenant of Israel with YHVH:

17. And side to side or front to back, these were the very same covenant.

18. And of the Torah of each tribe, these they did distribute unto all the elders of Israel according to their lineage.

19. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses spoke unto the Kohen Gadol (High Priest) and the Kohanot Gadolah (High Priestess), saying:

20. YHVH, our Elohim, will choose faithful men and women, keepers of His Torah, and examples in righteousness, to be Priests and Priestesses after the order of everlasting life (the High Priesthood).

21. And these shall be as princes and princesses, nobles, even High Priests and High Priestesses in the Kingdom of God.

22. ¶ And it shall come to pass that when ye do settle in the land of promise, the Kohen Gadol and the Kohanot Gadolah shall be set apart in each land, that there be those called of YHVH to preside and be watchers over the things of YHVH, our Elohim.

23. And so it shall be that from the High Priests shall ye select counselors, and shofet (judges), and other nobles that the things appointed of Ha’Elohim be sanctified unto holy purposes.

24. And these shall minister in the salvation of the living and of the dead of Israel, that all shall know the redemption of YHVH, our Elohim.

25. And so it shall be that if it be that these need to gather to discuss the needs of Israel, let them do so in the name of YHVH, our Elohim.

26. ¶ And now, bring unto me seventy-two High Priests and seventy-two High Priestesses shall fill their ranks, being one hundred and forty-four.

27. And from among these shall be chosen one High Priest and one High Priestess, even they whom YHVH, our Elohim, shall choose by the casting of lots;

28. And these shall watch over all the High Priests and High Priestesses, to lead in all their deliberations, and two High Priests and two High Priestesses to assist them.

29. ¶ And it came to pass that they did hear and harken unto the words of Moses. 

30. And so it was that because his words did come from YHVH, they did make a covenant that day, that when they would come unto the land of promise, they would keep them. 

---
chapter: Chapter 19

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/19

1. And it came to pass that that YHVH did say unto Moses: Gather unto me twelve men and twelve women of the Elders of Israel, they whom thou knowest to be Elders of the people, and officers over them; 

2. And have these choose out from amongst thy people seventy-two men and seventy-two women of the Elders of Israel,

3. And do bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee and I will come down and talk with thee there.

4. And I will take of that Spirit which is upon thee and will put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people that they might be one.

5. ¶ And so it was that Moses spoke unto Israel, saying: Gather unto me all the Elders of your tribes and your officers, 

6. That I may speak these words in their ears and call unto the heavens and the earth to record it against them.

7. For I know that after my death ye will utterly corrupt yourselves and turn aside from the way which I have taught you;

8. And evil will befall you in the latter days because ye will do evil in the sight of YHVH, to provoke Him to anger through the work of your hands.

9. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses took aside men and women of Israel and he did set them apart to lead the people.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses did take all the Elders of the tribes of Israel, and their officers, and he did teach them, saying: 

11. At the end of each period of seven years, in the solemnity of the year of release, in the feast of tabernacles,

12. When all Israel is come to appear before YHVH, our Elohim, in the place which He shall choose, thou shalt read the Torah before all Israel in their hearing.

13. Ye shall assemble this people together: the men, and the women, and the children, and the foreigner that is within your gates;

14. And this that all may hear, and that all may learn, and that all may reverence YHVH, our Elohim, and observe to do all the words of His Torah,

15. And that your children, which have not known YHVH or His Torah, may hear and learn to revere YHVH, our Elohim, as long as ye live in the land whither ye shall go over Jordan to possess it.

16. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses set apart twelve men, one from each of the tribes of Israel, and twelve women, one from each of the tribes of Israel, 

17. And he spoke unto these, saying: When YHVH, our Elohim, shall send His Shalom (peace or gospel) to all the nations, He shall call and choose twelve talmidim, 

18. To be the witnesses of HaShem (the Name) and the Kingdom unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.

19. And these He shall appoint Shepherds of the flock; under the appointment of the Sar Ra’ah, He shall make them nobles in His Kingdom:

20. Twelve He shall appoint them to declare His Torah unto all nations; and to teach it among all of Israel who are scattered across the earth.

21. And the twelve talmidim shall have authority as watchers and carriers of His ensign unto the people beyond the kingdom, by appointment of that Sar Ra’ah.

22. And these shall be faithful to that dominion which they are given in the kingdom, by the mitzvoth of YHVH, our Elohim.

23. And so it is that YHVH hath called you this day to be His talmidim and to bear faithful testimony to all nations:

24. Therefore, cease not to declare the whole counsel of Ha’Elohim and YHVH shall give you rest from your labors, and you shall be noble ones forever.

25. And ye shall choose of yourselves one of the men from among you and one of the women from among you to speak for all of you, even as was done amongst the twelve righteous in the days of Nimrod:

26. And unto them ye shall all give heed, as chiefs amongst you, yet shall Sar Ra’ah be over all, and ye shall rebel not against His mitzvoth; 

27. And so it shall be that ye shall be even as princes and princesses in the kingdom forever.

28. ¶ And these shall select from among you seventy-two Elders, chosen men and women, faithful in the Torah of YHVH, to teach the people.

29. And one man and one woman of these Seventy shall be chosen as chiefs among them, and they shall teach and guide them in their order.

30. And after this, another seventy-two may ye choose from the righteous men and women of Israel, and the land shall need them, until there shall be seven Seventies.

31. And one man and one woman shall be appointed Chiefs of each Seventy, to lead them in righteousness as the first in their assembly.

32. And these Seventies shall labor to teach the people the Torah, a quarter of their time and continually, and their households shall not lack bread.

33. ¶ And it shall come to pass that when these have labored faithfully, they shall have rest, and a goodly inheritance given them from among the just;

34. But if sin be upon them, they shall be sent out away from that order.

---
chapter: Chapter 20

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/20

1. And it came to pass that Moses did speak again unto the Kohen Gadol and the Kohanot Gadolah, saying:

2. The Priests and the Priestesses of the Levites, these should be faithful servants of YHVH, our Elohim;

3. Walking in righteousness and pure in their conversation; yea, not given to strong drink, nor lust, nor lasciviousness.

4. ¶ And it shall comne to pass that when ye do settle in the land of promise, there shall need be Priests and Priestesses set apart in all the cities, and in every town and village to keep the sacrifices unto YHVH, our Elohim.

5. And these shall keep watch over the houses of YHVH, and shall minister unto the people;

6. And some shall be as psalmists, and shall lead these people to worship YHVH, our Elohim.

7. ¶ And when it shall come to pass that YHVH shall instruct you to build up temples unto Him, that He may come and dwell in the midst of you, then will this kehunnah (Priesthood or service) administer the ordinances of that Temple.

8. And there shall be set a Kohen Gadol and the Kohanot Gadolah in every Temple, and to them shall they that watch over the House of Ha’Elohim give heed.

9. And the Priestess shall pour out the libations unto YHVH, and shall sing and dance in prophecy, and assist in the rituals, but she shall not kill sacrifices.

10. ¶ And in every city, town, and village, ye shall ordain Teachers, men and women who are gifted in instruction, learned in symbols, and every manner of wisdom and knowledge;

11. And this that Israel and her children might attain to all wisdom and all knowledge.

12. And the Teachers of the Torah shall be appointed to instruct the people in the ways of YHVH, and in the words of His Torah.

13. And it shall come to pass that the children of the rich and the poor shall come together to learn the words of the Torah without price.

14. ¶ And in every city shall ye ordain shamashim; they who do love the Torah; men and women who neither despise the poor, nor fear the rich;

15. And these need be kind, for they are the servants of YHVH, and swift of foot, for they shall be the messengers (makakim) of YHVH.

---
chapter: Chapter 21

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/21

1. And it came to pass that Moses took aside all those that had been set apart to lead the people, and unto these he said:

2. Set your hearts unto all the words which I testify among you this day, which ye shall instruct your children to observe to do, all the words of the Torah;

3. For it is not a vain thing for you because it is your life; and through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, when ye go over Jordan to possess it.

4. ¶ And it shall come to pass that when ye do settle in the land of promise, ye shall seek out wise men and women in every city, who love righteousness, and hate iniquity;

5. They who seek to do the Torah of YHVH and know its righteousness shall be ordained Elders.

6. And these shall be they who shall govern and instruct as they shall be appointed, for these shall be the leaders of this people.

7. ¶ And the Elders shall read the Torah all the days of their lives, that they may instruct the people therein, to keep it;

8. And this that they may be able to serve Israel, even as they shall be appointed.

9. ¶ And so it shall be that the Elders shall instruct the people in the Torah and to keep the Sabbath in their assemblies;

10. And they shall visit the sick, the poor, and the needy, and give comfort unto all who are distressed, and counsel to those who ask of them.

11. ¶ And none shall take upon themself the honor of the kehunnah of YHVH; neither shalt thou confer this honor on any but they whom YHVH, our Elohim, shall call.

12. For none shall administer in the name of Ha’Elohim but they who are called by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, that the will of Ha’Elohim be known, 

13. ¶ And so it shall be that they shall be set apart unto their call by the hands of those upon whom the authority of His name is sealed. 

14. And whosoever is called by the Voice to the power splendor shall be anointed and ordained by the hands of those who stand in the power splendor of that same call: 

15. But they that are first, by the malakim of Ha’Elohim; that they may have all the gifts; 

16. Even wisdom and knowledge, faith and truth, revelation and prophecy; and whatsoever gift is good for the congregation of YHVH our Elohim: 

17. That they may be able to have authority in righteousness: and they for their several callings, among the congregation. 

18. ¶ And so it shall be that all they who are called to administer at the altar, and in sacraments and ceremonies, shall be consecrated and set apart by the hands of those in like authority, according to the calling of Ha’Elohim, for their ministry. 

19. And all they who do consecrate another to the kehunnah of YHVH, and the authority of HaShem, YHVH shall, with hands upon their heads, and by the Voice, declare and seal upon them the name and authority of YHVH, our Elohim; even unto that kehunnah unto which they do consecrate them. 

---
chapter: Chapter 22

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/22

1. And it came to pass that YHVH did speak unto Moses saying: Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them:

2. Ye shall be holy: for I, YHVH, your Elohim am holy.

3. ¶ And so it was that Moses spoke these words unto all Israel, saying unto them:

4. YHVH hath spoken unto me, saying: Thou shalt not go over this Jordan; but YHVH, our Elohim, He will go over before you.

5. And YHVH shall destroy the nations from before you, and you shall possess them; and Joshua, he shall go over before you even as YHVH hath said.

6. And YHVH shall do unto their elohim as He did to Sihon and to Og, kings of the Amorites, and unto the elohim of the lands of them, for their elohim He did destroy.

7. And YHVH shall give them up before your face, that ye may do unto them according unto all the instructions I have given you of YHVH, our Elohim.

8. Be strong and of good courage; fear not nor be afraid of them; for YHVH, our Elohim is undefeated; He will go with you and will not fail you nor forsake you.

9. ¶ And unto Joshua I say: Be strong and of good courage; for you must go with this people unto the land which YHVH hath sworn unto our fathers to give them; and thou shalt cause them to inherit it.

10. And YHVH shall go before thee and will be with thee; YHVH will not fail thee neither forsake thee; fear not; neither be dismayed.

11. ¶ And it came to pass that Moses spoke again unto all of Israel, saying:

12. Set your hearts unto all the words which I testify among you this day, which ye shall teach your children to observe to do, all the words of this Torah.

13. For it is not a vain thing for you because it is your life; and through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, when ye go over Jordan to possess it.

14. ¶ And YHVH did come down from that Mountain of Strength, and rose up, and did shine forth when He did come with ten thousand Kodesh;

15. From His right hand went the fire of the Torah for them; yea, YHVH loved the people.

16. And all the Kodesh of YHVH are in the hand of YHVH; and they sit down at His feet; everyone shall receive of His words.

17. ¶ And all that receive the words of YHVH shall receive also that breath of life, for these are counted as Israel by the covenant; 

18. Therefore, all that shall be washed clean, these shall be set apart by the laying on of hands to wear the tzitzits, 

19. For Israel shall be a nation of kings and queens, priests and priestesses unto YHVH, our Elohim.

20. ¶ And this that all of Israel might be blessed with knowledge and wisdom and given understanding, the mercy and strength of YHVH.

21. And if ye shall cherish it, then shall YHVH establish you in all righteousness, with a new power; 

22. ¶ And it shall come to pass that as it passeth off and leaveth him, his gift shall continue, and he shall walk in newness of life;

23. Therefore, though ye shall be divided amongst the land that YHVH shall bless you with, know that you are all Israel.

24. Though you shall be divided by your lands and by your tribes, let thou seek to be familiar with one another by thy rods, 

25. That ye shall know that all of Israel is to be one, even as YHVH, our Elohim, is One.

26. Go ye and cease not to do this and ye shall be holy: for YHVH, our Elohim be holy.

---
chapter: Chapter 23

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/23

1. And it came to pass that Moses did raise up his hands to bless the people of Israel, saying:

2. ¶ And this is the blessing of Levi: Let the Thummim of YHVH be with Levi, and the Urim of YHVH be with His holy ones;

3. These are they that shall teach Jacob the judgments of YHVH, and Israel His Torah; they shall put incense before YHVH and whole burnt sacrifices upon the altar.

4. YHVH, bless their substance and accept the work of their hands; smite the loins of those that would rise against them, and that hate him, that they rise no more.

5. And they that are born in that first month, these are of the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Levi; let them be honest, and of great sympathy, giving generously unto all they that are in need of succor in the name YHVH.

6. Let them despise the stirring up of gossip, but seek peace over conflict;

7. Let them seek knowledge, looking ever to the understanding of YHVH, our Elohim, even of that which is hidden from the world.

8. Let them forever be known for their kindness, and bring joy and happiness to all they that be around them.

9. ¶ And this is the blessing of Benjamin: The beloved of YHVH shall dwell in safety by him; and YHVH shall cover him all the day long, and he shall dwell between his shoulders.

10. And they that are born in that second month, these are of the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Benjamin; let them live a life that is average, full of passion with bountiful grace within them.

11. May they desire to know, and ever listen with their ears, letting their mouths be still that they might be a confident unto those that would tell them their secrets;

12. May their insight bring wisdom unto Israel, yet remain humble in all their doings, remembering YHVH, our Elohim.

13. ¶ And this is the blessing of Judah: Hear, YHVH, the voice of Judah and bring him unto his people; let his hands be sufficient for him; and be thou a help to him from his enemies.

14. And they that are born in that third month, these are of the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Judah; Let thy generosity never waver;

15. May thou be the champion of the lowly, and the voice of those that have no voice;

16. Let them nurture, and teach of YHVH, our Elohim, with confidence, showing calmness, ever working to end strife.

17. ¶ And this is the blessing of Zebulun: Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out and in thy coming in,

18. For they shall bring in the abundance of the seas and find treasures that have been hidden in the sands.

19. And they that are born in that fourth month, these are of the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Zebulun; let them be noble, taking the path forward when others are fearful;

20. And should thou fail in thy endeavors, may thou focus thy strength to meet thy desires, be they desires found in YHVH, our Elohim.

21. And when others come unto thee from afar, may thou be kind and generous, seeking that which is good for thy seed and for Israel.

22. ¶ And this is the blessing of Issachar: Open thy scrolls, Issachar, in thy tents and read that thou should know.

23. And they that are born in that fifth month, these are of the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Issachar; let them rejoice in their stillness, that they be always well informed.

24. Let them reject ignorance and arrogance, seeking the right course of action in YHVH, using thy knowledge to produce much wisdom.

25. Be thou loyal, showing sympathy, being generous by thy nature, and find thyself actively engaged in the works of YHVH, our Elohim.

26. ¶ And this is the blessing of Joseph: May YHVH put His hand over their land, to bless it with the precious things of the heavens, and with dew, and protect them from the things that gather in the abyss beneath.

27. And may YHVH bless them with the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon,

28. And with the best things from the ancient mountains, and with the precious things from the everlasting hills,

29. And for the precious things of the earth and fullness thereof, and for the favor of those who do dwell in the bush;

30. Yea, let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph and upon the top of the head of him who is the prince amongst his brethren.

31. His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his horns are like the horns of the wild ox;

32. With them he shall push the people together at the ends of the earth; and they are the multitude of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.

33. And they that are born in that sixth month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Joseph; may thou be known for thy generosity, and thy willingness to give of thyself,

34. May thou, in wisdom, see the truth in all sides of the head of battle, being unpredictable in thy neutrality.

35. May thou work diligently, that thy needs be met, and time be taken for thy heart to heal.

36. ¶ And this is the blessing of Gad: Blessed be he that enlargeth Gad; he dwelleth as a lion and teareth the arm with the crown of the head.

37. He did take the choicest part for himself because there, in a portion of the lawgiver, was he seated;

38. And he did come with the heads of the people; he executed the justice of YHVH and His ordnance for Israel.

39. And they that are born in that seventh month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Gad; may your strength always be found in thy wisdom, and not in lofty dreams of foolishness.

40. May thy hand always be outstretched, ready to serve that of Israel, that thou should see through thine enemies;

41. May thy perseverance in times of trouble be great, that thou should persevere in the name of YHVH, our Elohim, and may thou be a friend unto YHVH and unto all of Israel all of thy days.

42. ¶ And this is the blessing of Dan: Dan is as the cub of the lion; he shall leap from out of the twin mountains.

43. And they that are born in that eighth month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Dan; may thy integrity, honor, and valor keep thee from back-biting and scandal.

44. May thou discover the hidden truths, being a confidant unto princes, keeping their secrets that thou should be trusted.

45. In thy compassion, show thy loyalty unto YHVH, our Elohim, and unto Israel.

46. ¶ And this is the blessing of Reuben: Let Reuben live and not die; and let not his people be few.

47. And they that are born in that ninth month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Reuban; may thy love of adventure and the things of this earth not distract thee from the things of YHVH;

48. May thou ever seek to know YHVH, our Elohim, by thy deep thoughts, and by thy helping hands.

49. ¶ And this is the blessing of Simon: Simon will call the people of Israel unto the mountains, and there they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness unto YHVH.

50. And they that are born in that tenth month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Simon; may thou move ever forward in YHVH, our Elohim, with a never-ending thirst.

51. May thy ways always be that of peacemaker in the kingdom, that thy tolerance and calm be used to bring unity to Israel. 

52. ¶ And this is the blessing of Asher: Let Asher be blessed with children; let him be acceptable to his brethren, and let him dip his foot in oil.

53. Thy shoes shall be iron and brass; and as thy days, so shall thy strength be.

54. And they that are born in that eleventh month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Asher; may thou have keen vision in thy planning, with a calm presence; yet, passionate of spirit that the ways of YHVH, our Elohim, be made clear.

55. May thou be strong and fierce in thy soul, yet show not but kindness unto all they that are around thee.

56. Let them be strong of character, with a swiftness of thought that will draw in Israel, that she not be found troubled in times of doubting.

57. ¶ And this is the blessing of Naphtali: O Naphtali, be thou filled with favor and full with the blessing of YHVH, filled with the mercy of YHVH and the Fire of Ha’Elohim.

58. And they that are born in that twelfth month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Naphtali; being inspired by the creation of YHVH, be thou swift in thy renewal.

59. Though they might stand back, when Israel is in need, may they come to her defence;

60. May you be known for thy wisdom and thy knowledge, that YHVH, our Elohim, be glorified.

61. ¶ And this is the blessing of Dinah: She who did acknowledge her brethren and knew all the children; she who has observed thy Word, YHVH, and kept the covenant!

62. Blessed be she who does teach the mitzvah and the Torah unto Israel from their youth, she shall remember to pour libations upon the altar.

63. And they that are born in that thirteenth month, these are the rod ( הטמ mattah) of Dinah; let them be leaders of men, for these are born unto YHVH as such,

64. For thou art the peacemakers and they who may be given the blessings to unite the people in the name of YHVH, our Elohim.

65. Confident and strong, may thy fiery passion ever burn, keeping Israel alight.

66. ¶ And this is the blessing of Israel, the seed of Abraham the doth seek to know YHVH, our Elohim:

67. Know all of your days and teach it unto your children, there is none like unto the Elohim of Israel, who rideth upon the heaven in your favor and in His splendor in the sky.

68. Elohim Olam is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms; 

69. And He shall thrust out the enemy from before thee and shall say: Destroy them!

70. Israel then shall dwell in safety alone; the fountain of Jacob shall be upon a land of corn and wine; also his heavens shall drop down dew.

71. ¶ Happy art thou, O Israel; who is like unto thee, O people saved by YHVH, the shield of thy help, and who is the chereb of thy excellency!

72. And thine enemies shall be found liars unto thee; and thou shalt tread upon their high places; so mote it be, amen.

---
chapter: Chapter 24

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/24

1. And it came to pass that Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain and YHVH did show unto him all the lands.

2. And so it was that YHVH did say unto him: This is the land which I swore unto Abraham, and unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying: I will give it unto thy seed;

3. I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not go over thither.

4. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did take Moses unto Himself; therefore, he should have no sepulcher as would a common man of Israel.

5. And it was Moses who did instruct us with the Torah, even the inheritance of the congregation of Israel.

6. And he was king in Israel when the heads of the people and the tribes of Jacob were gathered together.

7. And so it was that the children of Israel wept for Moses for thirty days; so the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended.

8. ¶ And it came to pass that YHVH did speak unto Joshua, the son of Nun, even the servant of Moses, saying: Arise!

9. Cross thou over this Jordan, thou and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, for I do now give it, even to the children of Israel.

10. Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you as I said unto Moses.

11. Yea, and from the mouth of that wilderness, and from here even unto the great river; 

12. Yea, and all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast.

13. ¶ And it shall come to pass that there shall be no people that will stand before thee all the days of thy life:

14. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee; I will not fail thee nor forsake thee; 

15. Therefore, be strong and of a good courage; for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swore unto their fathers and their mothers to give unto them.

16. Wherefore, be strong and very courageous, and thou will observe to do according to all that Torah which Moses, my servant, did command thee; 

17. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest.

18. And see that the book of the Torah doth not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein; 

19. And then it shall be that I shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success.

20. ¶ Have not I commanded thee? Therefore, be strong and of a good courage; 

21. Be not afraid; neither be thou dismayed, for I, YHVH thy Elohim, am with thee whithersoever thou goest.

---
chapter: Chapter 25

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/25

1. And it came to pass that Joshua, the son of Nun, was full of the spirit of wisdom;

2. For Moses had laid his hands upon him; and the children of Israel did hearken unto him, even as YHVH had said unto Moses.

3. ¶ And so it was that Joshua did command the officers of the people, saying: Pass through the host, and command the people, saying:

4. Prepare you provisions; for within three days ye shall pass over this Jordan to go in to possess the land which YHVH, your Elohim, hath given you to possess it.

5. ¶ And to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to half the tribe of Manasseh spoke Joshua, saying:

6. Remember the word which Moses, the servant of YHVH, instructed you, saying: YHVH, your Elohim, hath given you rest and hath given you this land.

7. Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side of Jordan;

8. But ye shall pass before your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valor, and help them until YHVH have given your brethren rest as he hath given you, and they also have possessed the land which the Lord, your God, giveth them;

9. Then ye shall return unto the land of your possession and enjoy it, which Moses, the servant of YHVH, gave you on this side Jordan toward the sunrising.

10. ¶ And so it was that they answered Joshua, saying: All that thou say unto us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendeth us, we will go.

11. According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken unto thee; only YHVH, our Elohim, be with thee as with Moses.

12. Whosoever rebeleth against thy instruction and will not hearken unto thy words in all that thou should instruct them, they shall be cast out; only be strong and of a good courage.

---
chapter: Chapter 26

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/26

1. And it came to pass that after Joshua, the son of Nun, had instructed the officers of Israel, saying: Go ye through all the camp and command this people, saying:

2. Prepare for yourselves provisions, for in three days more you will pass the Jordan to possess the land!

3. That the officers of Israel did so, and they instructed the people, and the people did even as Joshua did instruct them.

4. ¶ And it came to pass that Joshua did send out two men to spy in secret, saying: Go now and view the land, even Jericho.

5. And so it was that they went and came into the house of the harlot, Rahab, and they did find lodging there.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that some men came unto the king of Jericho, saying: Behold, there came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel to search out the country.

7. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying: Bring forth the men that are come to thee, which are entered into thine house; for they be come to search out all the country.

8. And so it was that the woman, Rahab, took the two men, and hid them, saying: There came men unto me, but I know not whither they go;

9. Yea, and behold that about the time of the shutting of the gate of the city, when it was dark, that the men went out; whither the men went, I know not; pursue after them quickly; for ye shall overtake them.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that Rahab did bring the men up to the roof of the house and hid them with the stalks which she had laid in order upon the roof.

11. And so it was that those men that had been sent out to pursued after them did soon go out, and they did shut the gates.

12. ¶ And it came to pass that Rahab came up unto these men upon the roof, and she did say unto them:

13. I do know that YHVH hath given you this land, and so it is that your terror has fallen upon us, and all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you.

14. For we have heard how YHVH did dry up the water of the sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and of the land that ye did utterly destroy.

15. And so it was that when we had heard these things, our hearts did fail; neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you:

16. For YHVH, your Elohim, He is over Ha’Elohim in the heavens above and above all that is here in all of the earth beneath, and even over that which dwellest in the abyss below.

17. Now, therefore, I pray you, swear unto me by YHVH, seeing that I have showed you kindness, that ye will also show kindness unto my father's house and give me a true token;

18. Yea, swear unto me that you will save alive my father, and my mother, and my brothers, and my sisters, and all that they have and deliver our lives from death.

19. ¶ And so it was that the men did answer her, saying: Our life for yours if you utter not this, our business.

20. Behold, when Israel shall come into the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by; 

21. And thou shalt bring thy father, and thy mother, and thy brothers and thy sisters, and all thy father's household home unto thee.

22. ¶ And so it shall be, that when YHVH doth give us this land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee and with the house of thy father, 

23. And so it shall be that the house of your father shall be added into the house of Israel and our peoples will be one people.

24. But I say unto thee: That whosoever shall go out of the doors of thy house into the street, his blood shall be upon their own head, and we will be guiltless; 

25. And whosoever shall be with thee in the house, their blood shall be on our head if any hand be upon them.

26. And if thou utter this our business, then we will be free of thine oath which thou hast made us to swear, and it will be sealed upon us no more.

27. ¶ And so did Rahab did say: According unto your words, so mote it be.

28. ¶ And it came to pass that her house, being there upon the wall, she did let them down by a cord through the window.

29. And she said unto them: Get you to the mountain, lest the pursuers meet you!

30. And she sent them away, and they departed; and she bound the scarlet line in the window.

---
chapter: Chapter 27

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/27

1. And it came to pass that the men of the king that did seek the spies sought them all throughout the day and night but found them not.

2. And so it was that the men did return unto Joshua, the son of Nun, and they did tell him all the things that did befall them.

3. And it came to pass that they did say unto Joshua, son of Nun: 

4. Truly YHVH hath delivered all the land into our hands; for even all the inhabitants of the country do melt away in despair from the thought of us.

5. ¶ And it came to pass that Joshua said unto Israel: Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow YHVH will do wonders among you.

6. ¶ And it came to pass that on the third day Joshua did rise early in the morning; and YHVH did say unto Joshua: 

7. This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that, as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee.

8. And thou shalt command the Priests that bear the ark of the covenant, saying: When ye are come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan,

9. And that the Priestesses shall stand ready, that they should pour out their libations at the time appointed them.

10. ¶ And it came to pass that Joshua did gather up the army of Israel.

11. And so it was that Joshua did speak unto the Priests, saying: Take ye up the ark of the covenant and pass over before the people.

12. And unto the Priestesses Joshua did say: Stand ready to pour out the libations when the sign is given, that YHVH should be given His due.

13. ¶ And it came to pass that the officers went through Israel, saying: 

14. When ye shall see the ark of the covenant of YHVH, our Elohim, and the Levites bearing it, then ye shall remove from your place and go after it,

15. And so it was that the Priests did take up the ark of the covenant and went before the people, and they did walk until they did come unto Jordan.

---
chapter: Chapter 28

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/28

1. ¶And it came to pass that Joshua did speak unto the children of Israel, saying: Come all ye hither and hear the words of YHVH, our Elohim.

2. Hereby ye shall know that Elohim Chaiyim (Hebrew, “life”) is among you,

3. And that without fail shall YHVH drive the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites, and the Perizzites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites out from before you.

4. Behold, the ark of the covenant of YHVH, El Elyon over all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan.

5. Now, therefore, take you up twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, even the twelve talmidim that Moses did set apart out of every tribe.

6. And it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of the feet of the Priests that bear the ark of YHVH, that Adon-kol Ha’Aretz (Lord of all the Earth), shall rest in the waters of Jordan, 

7. That the waters of Jordan shall be sealed away from the waters that come down from above; and they shall stand upon a heap.

8. ¶ And it came to pass that the people did pack up their tents that they should pass over Jordan, and the Priests bearing the ark of the covenant did go out before the people,

9. And so it was that as they that bore the ark were come unto Jordan, and the feet of the Levites that bare the ark were dipped in the brim of the water,

10. That the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city of Man, in the valley of Jordan;

11. And those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, failed and were cut off; and the people passed over right against Jericho.

12. ¶ And it came to pass that the Priests that bore the ark of the covenant of YHVH stood firm on dry ground in the midst of Jordan; 

13. And so it was that all the Israelites did pass over on dry ground until all the people of the nation of Israel did cross over Jordan, even as they had by the power of YHVH, through the hand of Moses, when fleeing Egypt.

14. ¶ And it came to pass that after all the people had passed over Jordan, YHVH did speak unto Joshua, saying:

15. Take you those twelve men that Moses did set apart from out of the people, one man out of every tribe a man, and command them, saying:

16. Take ye hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of the place where the feet of the priests did stand firm, twelve stones; 

17. And ye shall carry them over with you and leave them in the lodging place where ye shall lodge this night.

18. ¶ And so it was that Joshua did call the twelve men who Moses had called up to be set apart out of the children of Israel, out of every tribe one man, and Joshua did say unto them:

19. Pass over before the ark of YHVH, our Elohim, into the midst of Jordan, and take you up every man a stone, according unto the number of the tribes of the children of Israel,

20. And this that it shall be a sign among you, that when your children ask their fathers in times to come, saying: What mean ye by these stones?

21. Then you shall answer them, saying: The waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of YHVH as it passed over Jordan;

22. For the waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones were placed for a memorial unto the children of Israel forever.

23. ¶ And it came to pass that the twelve talmidim of Israel did even as Joshua asked of them, and they did take up twelve stones out of the midst of Jordan.

24. And so it was that it was even as YHVH did speak unto Joshua, and the twelve talmidim of the children of Israel did carry them over with them and did lay them down there.

25. And it came to pass that Joshua did set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests which bare the ark of the covenant did stand. 

---
chapter:  ...

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/wars-of-yhvh/more

. //More to be translated from the plates of brass as the work of the Lord moves forward//
