book: Sefer Zenock

book-sum: The words and visions of Zenock, ben Zenoch, for the Word of YHVH did come to him in the days when Zimriy was king over Israel.

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/zenock/


---
chapter: Chapter 1

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/zenock/1

chapter-sum: Zenock speaks, expounding the scriptures, filled with the Holy Spirit of truth.

1. And it came to pass that Zenok (צנכ) being filled with the Breath of YHVH did open his lips, saying: 

2. We have been given the words of Moses, which is the teachings of YHVH through that mighty hand;

3. And this wisdom has been passed down through the servants of YHVH, even the prophets, that we would have His Word:

4. That we might seek YHVH with all of our hearts and all of our souls; to love everything that YHVH hath given us, and to hate all that which YHVH doth hate; 

5. For we do know that Moses did teach us to observe to do all that our Elohim, YHVH, did instruct us; 

6. Therefore, we should be like unto the sons of our father, Joseph, even Manasseh and Ephraim. and turn aside not to the right hand nor to the left. 

7. Yea, and Moses did teach us to walk in all the ways YHVH, our Elohim, did instruct us, that we may live, and that it may be well with us;

8. ¶ And should we do this, Moses did even give us the Word of YHVH, saying: 

9. Wherefore, thou shall do my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them; and thou shall dwell in the land in safety.

10. And behold, ye do see the good things with which YHVH hath blessed His people; 

11. Yea, and His mercy has not blessed your hearts that ye should give even as ye have been blessed or even as ye have been given;

12. Therefore, there is much injustice, and the rich do keep for themselves, and the poor, they are cast aside and discarded. 

13. ¶ Yet did not Moses give unto us the Word of YHVH when he did say unto us: 

14. Thy desire shall be unto thy own, lest thou be corrupt, and the hand of thy neighbors be against thee, and the cry of the poor ascend to YHVH against thee.

15. And yet the poor do cry out unto YHVH even unto this day, seeking salvation from hunger and from thirst, and for relief for their impoverishment. 

16. ¶ And behold, Moses did say: Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause; but shall feed and cloth the poor among thee that my people be free, and their wants and needs be met.

17. And is there no poor amongst us? I say unto thee: Nay; the poor do scurry about in search for substance and in fear that they be molested when they have committed no crimes. 

18. ¶ And Moses did say: For when thou are obedient unto my covenant thou shall be blessed, and prosper in the land that I shall give unto thee; 

19. But when thou are not faithful, then shall my wrath be poured out upon thee.

20. And ye see that we have been a blessed people, but have we kept our mitzvoth? I say unto thee again: Nay; therefore, ye have no promise. 

21. ¶ And again, Moses did say unto us: And if thy brother or thy sister should wax poor and fall in decay with thee, then thou shalt relieve them; 

22. Yea, though they be a stranger or a sojourner, that they may live with thee. 

23. Take thou no usury of them, or increase; but fear thy Elohim, that thy brother or sister may live with thee. 

24. Thou shalt not give them thy money upon usury nor lend them thy food or provisions for increase.

25. And yet ye would cast me out from amongst you for saying these things? And I know you sought to destroy me, but YHVH did deliver me from out of thy hands. 

26. And yet I am one of you, for I am of the seed of Joseph through my mother, and my father be a Levite and a Priest unto this people. 

27. ¶ And seeing that I have cast aside the things of the earth, and I know ye think me mad,

28. For I do come before thee in sackcloth and ashes for the bondage and affliction that ye have caused your brothers and your sisters to suffer before YHVH;

29. And I say unto all of you that do hear my voice: It is YHVH who does judge all things in righteousness;

30. Therefore, be slow to hear the cries of the widows and the fatherless no more, and cast out the poor from amongst you no more; 

31. But lift them up even as YHVH hath lifted you up; yea, do this and ye shall walk in perfection in the sight of YHVH.

32. For in loving your fellow men and fellow women you shall not stray from the truth but will walk in the perfection of the path of YHVH, our Elohim. 

33. ¶ For YHVH hath said unto me: Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy brothers and sisters, to thy poor, and to thy needy in thy lands.

34. Wherefore, if ye will heed not unto my works, listen then to the words of Moses, friend of YHVH; for he did speak truly unto our fathers and our mothers, that we would know. 

35. Shower not thy gift unto the Priest, and this I say when ye know that my father is a Priest amongst you, 

36. Wait not for the sons of Aaron to give your tithes unto the poor, or for the Priests to bless the poor with your tithes and your offerings; but give to the poor amongst you freely of yourselves! 

37. ¶ And I do say unto you this day: That when our fathers and our mothers did enter into that covenant, we too did enter therein by their blood that is in us;

38. Therefore, all that YHVH did promise to bless them with, He should bless us with, and all that YHVH did promise to curse them with, He should curse us with.

39. And all of Israel did enter into that covenant; therefore, all that have sinned shall confess their sins: 

40. For even as we have walked away from that truth it shall be justice that we are given.

41. Yet YHVH doth continue to shower many among us with His blessing, and why does He bless these? That they might bestow their gifts unto another. 

42. ¶ Yea, and we see that YHVH has showered His merciful favor, blessing us with the good things of the earth;

43. Therefore, may YHVH light up our hearts that we would see countenance of His favor that we have been given! 

44. ¶ Yet YHVH hath sent me amongst you, saying: Accursed ye shall be for your wickedness, and if ye do not repent His justice shall come among you!

45. For the darkness of your deeds be great in His sight, and with that same mercy that ye have given shall ye receive; 

46. Therefore, all they that deny mercy unto their brothers and their sisters shall the mercy of YHVH be denied. 

47. ¶ And when you do hear the voice of the covenant in your hearts, saying: Would that I have peace! Know that it is the darkness of your hearts that hath brought forth His anger. 

48. And all they that have kept the covenant shall say: Amen unto your destruction, for the stubbornness of Israel shall be her justice! 

49. ¶ But know too that YHVH is mercy, and that He doth cleans us of our sins: 

50. And for this YHVH shall send His Son, that redemption should come through Him;

51. For I have seen the redemption of Israel; and it shall be swift in the righteousness of YHVH. 

52. Wherefore, know ye that all that YHVH Elohim hath built, he too will destroy, and that all that YHVH should destroy, He will build it up again.

53. ¶ For YHVH did give unto us the Sabbaths and the Holy Days, and these He did give unto us as signs that He would come unto us in the flesh.

54. And when the Son of Man will come, He will again take Israel from out of her bondage, but it shall be from the bondage of her sins.

55. And it shall be even as Moses was told of the Passover, for what shall be required of the Son of Man but that He should be taken from amongst His people? 

56. But Israel shall see that justice cannot be taken nor can mercy be destroyed, and that the light of His mercy shall stand forever and ever to satisfy the demands of justice;

57. And in this ye shall know that there shall be bitter weeping and much destruction before the end should come. 

58. ¶ And I know that at these words ye do desire my blood, but it shall not be spilt yet, for YHVH hath given me more to say. 

59. And I know that ye will not hear nor harken unto my words; therefore I give them not for you, 

60. But that they should be preserved to be heard by they of our seed, even of Ephraim and Manasseh, they that shall be called away even unto the isles of the seas, 

61. And they shall read my works and shall know that it is unto them that I speak.

62. And also, unto they that are of Israel in the last days, for these words shall come forth as a warning and all they that the Breath of Elohim doeth guide to hear them. 

63. ¶ Wherefore I say unto thee: Write ye my words that ye may use them as a sign against me this day, and that our seed might read them as a light in the darkness in their days.

64. For the things of YHVH are unknown to they that are the workers of darkness, though the legacy (inheritance or portion) of the sons and daughters of Adam be that they should know good from evil. 

65. ¶ But what has mankind done with this gift but give evil for good and evil for evil? 

66. And is this the ways of YHVH, our Elohim? 

67. I say unto thee nay, for Moses did give unto us the Word of YHVH, saying: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.

68. And Moses did say unto us further: If a stranger should sojourn with thee in thy land, thou shall not vex them; 

69. But the stranger that dwelleth with thee shall be unto thee as one born among you, 

70. And thou shalt love them as thyself; for thou wast a stranger in the land of Egypt; and I am YHVH, thy Elohim.

71. Wherefore, I would ask you: Who then is thy neighbor? 

72. ¶ And again, Moses did say unto our fathers: And if a stranger shall sojourn among you and will keep the Passover, 

73. According to the ordinance of the Passover and according to the manner thereof, so shall they do; 

74. Thou shall have one ordinance, both for the stranger and for they that was born in the land.

75. Therefore, I do say unto you this day: Thy neighbor and the stranger, these are one in YHVH, 

76. For there is but one Passover and thus one salvation for both the stranger and for they that are born in the land.

77. Wherefore, beware pride in these things, for all the creation is as one unto YHVH. 

78. ¶ And when the Son of Man should come, He shall come unto His people first, and then He shall send Israel out to teach the world.

79. And why should He do this thing? Because the love of YHVH is great for this, His creation, and all of mankind He would bless through His servant, Israel:

80. Wherefore, it is in this, at the end, that YHVH shall bring us into His new creation;

81. For YHVH doth know the stubbornness of His people, and He doth pity and succor us with His grace.

82. ¶ Yet the time does soon come when we too shall see His justice and plea for His mercy, even and the poor amongst you do plea for your mercy.

83. Will you then hear their pleas that YHVH should hear your cries in your time of need? 

84. And perhaps thou might say: But YHVH shall bless him for YHVH, our Elohim hath blessed me as such! 

85. ¶ But I say unto you: Thou does not know the mercy nor the blessing of YHVH; for all that He does give doth belong to YHVH, think not that it be of thy strength, 

86. But know that YHVH doth give freely unto they that He doth bless that these should bless they that YHVH doth send unto them:

87. Wherefore, I say again unto thee, even as Moses hath said: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself;

88. Therefore, all that YHVH hath blessed thee with, He hath given that ye should bless your neighbors. 

89. ¶ And again, I say unto all you who would hear my words: Harken now unto the word which YHVH hath breathed unto me.

90. And this shall be a sign: Though ye do seek to take my life, ye shall not have it, 

91. But YHVH shall deliver me unto you even unto my death if it should be the will of El Elyon, once His Word hath been spoken through his servant. 

92. For my words must be known and should be written down, 

93. That they who shall be taken unto the isles of the seas be warned that they should know to reject the man of lies and to believe the words of the teachers of YHVH. 


---
chapter: Chapter 2

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/zenock/2

chapter-sum: Zenock tells of his vision.

1. Even as a boy, my father did instruct me in the ways of YHVH, and he did teach me the Word of YHVH as given by His servant, Moses, 

2. And I did learn of our father, Joseph and our mother, Aseneth; 

3. And they did have a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God, consisting of the wisdom of Israel and the language of the Egyptians.

4. And it came to pass that I did come to know that the mysteries of the Torah would not be revealed by committing the Word to memory, nor from following the blindness of men;

5. But the truth of the Torah was a gift to be given of YHVH Elohim unto all they who do seek to uncover her face, and learn her wisdom, and her truth, and her secrets. 

6. ¶ And it came to pass that as I grew, I did see that many availed themselves not to the Teachings of YHVH, our Elohim, 

7. But did turn themselves unto that of idolatrous nations, and the arts and suspicions of men that do call themselves prophets, yet they do see vanity, and divine not but lies. 

8. And upon seeing this, I did turn unto YHVH, the Elohim of my fathers, and your fathers, even Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that I should learn and know. 

9. ¶ And it came to pass that after ten years of study, and of prayer, and of supplication unto YHVH, the eyes of my understanding were opened, and I did know. 

10. And upon entering into the council of the quidoshim or the knowledge of the holy angels of YHVH and being filled with the mercy of Elohim Shaddai, I was privy to the Divine Wisdom. 

11. Now in this time, I did travel, seeking truth from any that the Voice did direct me to seek;

12. I was given to travel four years to the north, and I did rest not for I did not find any seeking that which YHVH had sent me to find there.

13. And I did find rest to the east for three years, and I did study there, and to the west I did wonder for one year, and I did travel two years to the south. 

14. And everywhere YHVH did send me, I did find the poor, and my pity I did give unto them, even until all of my substance was gone and I had nothing left of myself. 

15. ¶ And it came to pass that as I did return unto the house of my father, in the seventh month of the tenth year of my travels, I did find lodging in the hut of a poor man and his wife.

16. Now this man, he being of great age, and his wife too being of a great age, they did beg for their substance, yet they did find it in their hearts to give unto me all that they did have.

17. Yet I could not sleep in their bed, which was but layers of old tattered rags upon the earth of their hut;

18. Therefore, I did give unto them the last of my things, this consisting of my bedding and the remainder of the provisions and I did wish to find rest upon the earth. 

19. And they did protest, for they desired nothing but the comfort of their guest; therefore, I did run off, leaving all of my things, and I did find shelter in a cave not far off. 

20. ¶ And it came to pass that in the morning, upon my return, I did see that the hut stood there no more, 

21. Yet I could see the markings upon the ground that did show unto me that this was the very place that I had sought shelter the night before. 

22. And I did throw myself unto the earth, for I did desire to know where the old man and his wife had gotten, and I did fear for their very lives. 

23. ¶ And it came to pass that as I prayed, a light did descend from the heavens unto me, and I did see that an angel of YHVH stood there before me.

24. And at the first, I was sore afraid, yet the peace of Elohim did wash over me, and the messenger did speak unto me, saying: 

25. YHVH hath forgiven thee thy sins, and hath called thee to teach His people; therefore, rise up, and get thee back to that cave, that I might teach thee there the things of YHVH. 

26. And it came to pass that I did get myself up, and I did travel back into that cave where I had found shelter.

27. ¶ And it came to pass that when I did find again that cave, I did see that same light emanating from within.

28. And it came to pass that upon entering the cave, I did fall to prostrate myself before that angel, and did ask him of the old man and his wife, for I did still fear for their safety. 

29. ¶ And the angel did speak unto me saying: Arise, and worship me not, for I am but a malak of YHVH; 

30. And fear not for those whom thou doth seek, for they too are servants of YHVH; therefore thou were serving Malakim unaware. 

31. Behold, Ha’Elohim hath seen you, and how thou hast served Him these ten years; 

32. For thou didst travel to the north 4 years, and then unto the east three years, and then west one year, and then unto the south for two years;

33. Now, today, in the tenth year of thy travels, step again outside this cave and look up, and thou shall find what thou doth seek.

34. ¶ And it came to pass that as I left the cave, there was a light, even brighter than the sun at noon day,

35. And my eyes could not see of themselves the vision that was placed before me, for I beheld that the heavens did open, and within was found the whole of creation. 

36. And so it was that I did see myself once more as a boy, and then as an old man; 

37. And as I, myself, yet surrounded in the riches of the things of this world, and as myself, in poverty and despair; 

38. And as a lord over many, and as the servant of a lord who took not pity upon those that did serve him. 

39. ¶ And a voice came out of that light, saying: Zenock, I have seen thee in every form, and in each thou art faithful; 

40. Therefore, fear not, I am He who has travel with thee all these ten years, and I am the Father and the Son; I am He that sitteth upon that throne that ruleth over Ha’Elohim. 

41. And even now, thou doth bask in the Presence of Elohim, in Her divine wisdom and light; were it not so, thou couldst not see me, nor could thou bear my light;

42. For it is the light and the life of the world, and in it is life everlasting, life eternal; for I am the well from which the water of life pours freely. 

43. And it is I that shall be lifted up upon a tree, and this that after I have been lifted up, all mankind might be drawn unto me. 

44. And I have called thee, even as I did call my servant Moses from that bush even as it was ablaze, yet it burned not. 

45. Listen now to the teachings of my malak, and thou shall learn truth, and teach this truth unto my people, 

46. And they that would listen shall write them, thy words, and preserve them that they should be brought forth at the last days as a testimony that I did call thee and that thou art my servant. 

47. ¶ And it came to pass that the heavens did close, and I did fall helpless unto the earth, weakened from the vision that I had been given. 

48. And it came to pass that when I did awaken, I did find myself looking again into the heavens, 

49. And seeing that I had no strength in me, I did lay there until I had recovered enough that I could make my way back into that cave, 

50. And there I did rest, and I did find sleep, all that time pondering the things I had seen and heard. 


---
chapter: Chapter 3

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/zenock/3

chapter-sum: The teachings of an angel of the Lord.

1. And it came to pass that on the morning I did awaken, and was tired from hunger and thirst, for my body was weakened of the things of the flesh.

2. And it came to pass that the angel did instruct me to go up out of that cave, and there I did find manna to eat;

3. And when I had eaten my fill, the angel, he did instruct me to take a stick and to strike a rock, even as Moses and Aaron had; and water did flow out from it. 

4. And it came to pass that I did fall to the earth and praise YHVH for the nourishment he had provided unto me.

5. ¶ And it came to pass that the angel did speak unto me again, saying: I am Haniel, I am he that did give unto Israel that Torah whilst in the flesh;

6. Yea, and I was taken up, for I did not give unto YHVH His due, even as thou did when the water sprang forth from that rock. 

7. And it has been given me of YHVH to teach thee and to instruct thee in the ways of YHVH Elohim, 

8. That thou might return and teach all they that would partake of the Breath and harken unto the Voice of Yah. 

9. ¶ And now I do say unto thee, even as thou didst travel these ten years, growing in YHVH: 

10. There are ten plagues that do draw mankind away from YHVH, our Elohim.

11. The first of these is Lilith, given to flee the light into the darkness; and this is the beginning of that path.

12. And the second, he is the leviathan of the abyss; these are they that care not for mankind but only for their own lives; the slanderer, they who do bear false witness.

13. The third is the secret combination, all those that would make a secret for their increase and keep it; and this was the sin of Cain. 

14. And the fourth is the impurity or the adultery of mankind; they that seek to break the covenant. 

15. And the fifth, she is war and bloodshed, murder for to get gain; she is even in all they that do make plans to spill blood.

16. And the sixth is the pride of the ignorant; they that have no love in their hearts for the earth, nor for the creation, nor for the wisdom of their mothers or their fathers, rejecting the wisdom of experience.

17. And the seventh is the rage of mankind, who in anger and their greed doth seek to destroy that which YHVH doth create and hath no love for their neighbors. 

18. And the eighth is the Sabbath breaker; both they who do worship the Sabbath and they who do reject it. 

19. And the ninth is the blasphemer, they who do take upon themselves the name of YHVH but do not walk as such. 

20. And the tenth is the idol maker, even they who do know YHVH Elohim, yet they do build up the things of mankind to place them before YHVH. 

21. And these are the enemies of YHVH and the enemies of Yah, therefore they are the enemies of Israel.

22. ¶ And behold, YHVH Elohim, in Wisdom and Glory, hath warned the earth of these plagues from before the beginning;

23. Yet from the beginning have these tried and tested mankind, and for this reason was this creation made, even to place mankind into the fire of temptation; 

24. To burn out the wickedness even as one would burn out the dross from the silver, that ye might find comfort and be made clean by that fire of the refiner,

25. That having been made pure and righteous, thou should stand and be ready before YHVH at that last day. 

26. For in this world, the light hath been mixed with the darkness, and so it was that in the beginning, the light was separated from that darkness.

27. ¶ And so it is that when a man or a woman doth take upon themselves the name of YHVH, that light is separated from the darkness, and they are made clean;

28. Therefore, I do say unto all mankind: Ye must take upon you the name of YHVH Tzidqenu Ha’Mashiach, for it is by this name that ye shall be called at that last day. 

29. But know that YHVH Tzidqenu Ha’Mashiach is eternal, being from everlasting to everlasting; therefore, YHVH is beyond the understanding of mankind.

30. Wherefore, YHVH doth hide His face from they that would not see Him, and doth only reveal His face unto they that do seek Him, showing unto them only that which they might see; 

31. For if YHVH Tzidqenu Ha’Mashiach were to show himself fully unto mankind, and not of the temporal, but of the spiritual, not of the carnal mind, but of the Glory of Elohim, 

32. If they were to see Him as He is, they would see the form of a man beyond all description, and beyond all comprehension.

33. ¶ And so it is that should any that come before YHVH Elohim to stand in the Presence or to see His face, they should see with their spiritual eyes, even as thou didst;

34. Therefore, thou should teach all mankind to seek the Presence and to harken unto the Voice, even as thou hast done, and the things of the spirit shall be made manifest and known unto them. 

35. ¶ And I say unto thee: There are those now that do walk the earth and there shall be those in the last days also that shall seek the company of the sa'iyr and the shed, 

36. And these would do so thinking they might learn from them, or take some control over them:

37. Yea, and it will even be that records shall come forth to tempt mankind that these are things of righteousness.

38. ¶ But behold, I say unto thee and all they that would hear and heed thy words: 

39. These things are priestcrafts and not of Elohim, but of that devil who desires to stirreth up the hearts of mankind in his deceptions;

40. And these priestcrafts were given of that Satan to drive the hearts of mankind away from the things of YHVH, that they should be fearful of Him and their fates at that last day.

41. Therefore, thou shalt abstain from this evil, that YHVH Elohim should sanctify thee and that thy body and soul be blameless at the last day,

42. And that YHVH Tzidqenu Ha’Mashiach should rase thee up, and seal thee in His light, 

43. Being washed clean in the water of life, and that death should not have power over thee forever and ever; amen. 

44. ¶ And it came to pass that the angel did continue to speak unto me, and to teach me the things of YHVH for many days, even that I did not keep count of them. 

45. But I did write his words, and I did come forth from that cave, and did travel back to the lands of my father, 

46. That I might teach you to avoid that which doth plague Israel, that the people of YHVH should keep our covenant with Him, that we should not lose our lands. 

47. And would ye listen? Nay, but ye have taken me, and tried me, and paid your judges to condemn me, though I have done no wrong. 

48. And it is even as the angel did speak, for in taking me you did spread the plagues of rage, and of ignorance, and of back biting, and slander.

49. Therefore, I say unto all of you this day: Come now unto YHVH, our Elohim, in teshuvah; 

50. Leave behind your priestcrafts, and your wicked ways that YHVH should spare His people;

51. Lay down your pride, and come forth anew in our covenant with YHVH, that we should find safety and peace, in this, the land that YHVH did promise unto our fathers. 

52. And now, do with me as ye will, for I am not in thy hand, but I am in the hands of YHVH Tzidqenu Ha’Mashiach,

53. And I know that whatever should be done unto me, it is not my will, but the will of that Elohim that did send me. 

54. And I see that ye have made a record of my words, and I know that these words will be kept, that it shall be made known at that last day, that I do serve YHVH, my Elohim.

55. And YHVH shall raise up all they that do serve Him unto life everlasting, and take away death for ever and ever. 

56. Therefore, if ye should take my blood, know that ye shall do it as a testimony against you at that last day; so mote it be, amen. 



---
chapter: ...

viewer-path: /plates-of-brass/zenock/more

. //More to be translated from the plates of brass as the work of the Lord moves forward//

